IO
The White Slave Girts of Chicago.
“What’s the $3 for?” I ask.
“ Can’t you read? The $2 is to pay for the samples and in-
struction and the $1 as a security for our material. I don’t
know who you are and if I gave you the thread I might never
see you again.”
“I don’t need instruction. I can make the stitch and I don’t
want to put any such amount in samples. If you can’t trust
me with a spool of thread and a pattern will y^^sell me the
material?”
“That’s not the way we do business. If you want to work
for us you must comply with the contract. You pay $3; that
entitles you to a sample mat which we teach you how to make.
After you have $15 made worth of work we refund the$i.”
“ What about the other $2?”
“ It goes to us for instruction and samples.”
“Will I have to make the samples?”
“Yes.”
“ Then there are thirteen in the lace manufacturing compa-
ny’s dozen? ”
“ If you want to put it that way, yes. But you get one of
each set.”
“But I don’t want any. I have a supply. Tell me how
much will you sell me a thirteenth of a dozen of this set for?”
“The price is on the tag.”
“Ah, I see, 15 cents; and you pay 6ocentsa dozen for mak-
ing them, a profit of $1.20. The best thing I’ve struck yet.
Any stock for sale? ”
The scowl becomes threatening, but I venture to ask how
much thread it takes to a mat for a closer calculation of the
profits.
No answer is deigned.
“ If I give you $3 you will give me work?”
“ Yes,” in a sullen tone.
"How much?”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
ii
“ All you can do,” brightning up a little.
“ How do I know you will give me back $i after I’ve earned
$15?” I ask. ‘‘I don’t know anything about you; I never
heard about your firm before, and there is no name on this
paper.”
“ I guess your motives are bad. You don’t want work.”
“What guarantee have you to offer of honesty or respecta-
bility?”
With glaring eyes, distended nostrils, and face crimson with
rage he threw down a pile of 2-cent blank books in front of
me. “There’s our customers; every state in the union is rep-
resented; go to them if you want references. Here are more,
too,” slaming down a sheet of paper with the names and Chi-
cago addresses of about forty women.
“ I see you have a minimum local trade. Chicago women
don’t seem overzealous about the crocheting business.” Then
I asked him where he got a market for the goods, and the
name of some business man to whom I could go for reference.
“ Now I am not going to do any more talking with you
about this business.”	v
‘‘Why? Is it a secret organization, a sort of Masonic-”
“No, it isn’t secret or Masonic, but I don’t believe you’re
all right and I won’t answer any more questions until I know
who you are and what you want.”
Poor Mr. F. was so furious by this time that I thanked him
for his attention and bade him good afternoon.
At the foot of the stairs I waited to tie my veil on and see
how Martha fared, but at the expiration of thirty minutes she
was still waiting for Mr. W. and her $16.
Of the five women I interrogated none of them were able to
earn 20 cents & day All expressed a liking for the work but
complained bitterly of the way the concern gave out the work.
For instance, bedspreads paid $10 a dozen, but not more than
three spreads were given to a hand and one of these was the