—
IOO	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
PLACES WHERE VIRTUE COUNTS FOR NOTHING AND IS NOT
TOLERATED BY THE EMPLOYER.
BODY AND SOUL MUST BE GIVEN UP TO THE SCOUNDRELS,
OR THE EMPLOYE LOSES HER SITUATION.
“Do you want to visit a manufacturing establishment, gen-
erally held in high repute, where a girl’s tenure of place depends
upon the degrading concessions she may be induced to make
to her employer?”
The question was put to a reporter for the Times by Inspector
G. R. of the health department. They had just formed a
temporary copartnership under the name and style of “we”
to make a thorough examination of the hells and holes where
human beings hive, delve, and thrive or die under the guise of
“employes.”
“Well, I’ll tell you the story and I know it to be true, and
so does my wife. A girl of good dS^lopment and modest
demeanor had for some time been employed in book-bindery
and had become fairly well skilled. One afternoon she turned
in, as the result of her day’s work, four books. The foreman
complained that the work was imperfect—in fact, that the
books were spoiled, and told the girl she must pay for them.
She asked for particulars but could get little satisfaction. She
became indignant and was thrust aside. Remembering that
other mouths. than hers .were awaiting the food her scanty
earnings must purchase she pleaded first for justice and then
for mercy.
“‘You quit work with the rest at 6 o’clock,’ said the fore-
man. 1 Come back fifteen minutes later and perhaps I may
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
101
straighten out your account so that you will lose nothing ’
The girf, hesitating between hope and fear, crossed the bridge
as if to go homeward, and then returned to the office. The
foreman wa$ at the door, welcomed her within, and turned the
key. He assured her he had helped many of the girls in the
employ of the firm to balance their accounts after business
hours. Be that as it may, he had made a grave miscalculation
in this case, and in less seconds than it takes to tell it he was
glad he hadn’t lost the key to the door. The girl came directly
to my house, told her story, and never returned to the tiger’s
lair. Her case is but one of many, and if she adheres to her
present decision it will be the particular one of the many be-
fore the firm and the foreman hear the last of it. Now come
with me and we’ll take a trip through the binderies and print-
ing establishments, and before we g;et through I’ll show you
the fiend who endeavored to ruin this young girl.”
Our first visit of inspection was made to the five-story and
basement building, on Monroe street, occupied by the J. M.
company, printers, binders and lithographers. On the main
floor the superintendent gave us yellow tickets, each guaran-
teeing a single ride in a freight elevator at the rear to the fifth
floor. “You must walk down,” he added, encouragingly.
To the fifth floor we went, and to all appearance arrived unan-
nounced as the foreman was frank. A girl acknowledged she
was but 14 years old and worked ten hours a day, and the
closets were in bad condition. Groping our way down a dark
and narrow stairway, we learned that the foreman had been
called to the office.
‘How old are you?’ ’ asked the inspector of a boy feeding a press.
“Seventeen,” iie replied, winking at a companion when the
inspector’s back was turned, as much as to say he knew his
business. Apparently he was about 13, and probably that was
his age, as it was admitted that four boys and two girls under
legal age were regularly employed.