—I--■ »■
102	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
Save as to ill-kept closets on the three upper floors and a
scarcity even of that undesirable kind, the sanitary condition
of the premises is fair, light and ventilation being abundant
Of the 305 employes 220 are males and eighty-five are females.
The wages of the latter range from $3 to $10 a week, averag-
ing about $5, and the male average is $12.50.
“Aren’t you from The Times?” asked one of the forewo*
men in a quizzical way.
“Do I look like a woman?”
“You might be 1 Nell Nelson’ disguised in pants for all I
know. But I don’t care if you are; I’ll tell you all I know.”
“ Facilis descensus avemi ” doesn’t apply to going down-
stairs in this factory, because it isn’t-^asy to get down, and the
lower you get—that is to say, the neiwrer you approach the
manager’s desk—the more heavenly the situation. Ceilings
rise in gradation and stairways expand until Mr. M’s hand-
some office is reached.
“The health department claims that there should be one
closet for every twenty employes,” said the inspector.
“ But ours are only for use in case of emergency,” replied
Mr. M. “We didn’t put them in for the accommodation of
our help, and they are not expected to visit them during work-
ing hours; their time belongs to us. It is work that we want
from them.”
This was said partly in self-defense and partly in repartee,
but even with apologetic explanation it grates harshly on the
ear. By an expenditure of a few hundred dollars, the health,
safety and comfort of 300 persons employed by a firm having
hundreds of thousands of dollars invested could be assured.
And at the same time it must be admitted that this is one of
the very best regulated establishments of the kind in Chicago.
The story told by the inspector did not relate to the J. M.
company.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
103
THE GIRLS DO PRETTY MUCH AS THEY PLEASE AT E. BROS.
NECKTIE ESTABLISHMENT, AND THEY-CAN EARN ABOUT
SEVEN DOLLARS A WEEK THE YEAR ROUND.
Neckwear is the source of E. Brothers’ wealth, at whose
factory, Market street, cravats, slip-ties, dude ties flat scarfs,
four-in-hands, and bow-knots, are turned out by the hundred
gross every week. Thither I went to make ties and the
acquaintance of the tie-makers. The insolent treatment I
received at H. S. & M. and S. L. & Co.’s, though anticipated
. was not encountered at E’s. I had taken the wrong entrance
and the politeness of the men in the elevator and stock rooms
was most refreshing. In the forewoman I found a slovenly
pudgy spinster of negative beauty and address, not at all
inclined to be affected by the woeful condition of her sex.
She was reluctant about giving me work because it took so
much time to teach a green hand. I told her that was not
my hue, that I was dextrous with the needle, and an expe-
rienced (?) cloak and coat maker.
“Then why don’t you work at one of the trades? Either
pays better than neckties. ’ ’
Remembering the pittances I had received at some other
places and how I had battled for them, I felt dubious about
the truth of her assertion, but argued that my health had
proved treacherous and the work too heavy for hot weather.
I told her I was a “ hustler,” and would like to try a week or
so till I learned the business.
“A week? Well, you’ll do well if you learn it in a year.
But take off your hat and I’ll let you have a scarf.”
In answer to my query regarding wages, I received the
stereotyped answer of the august “ forelady,” viz., “different
prices.” With so much specification I began to make scarfs.