»
104
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
The work-shop was the breeziest, airiest, roomiest place I
had ever worked in, but far from attractive, being rude in
finish and poorly lighted. About ti^e east wall was a low
gallery stocked with goods, and the opposite wall was used as
a clothes-press by the one hundred or so girls- There were
hats, jackets, shawls and cloaks, dress-skirts, basques, petti-
coats and corsets which the girls had divested themselves of as
much for economy as comfort. There was no machine to
strain the ear and make the head ache, and its absence was to
me as soothing as the quiet calm of country life. Another
remarkable feature was the cheerfulness that prevaded the
shop. No restraint but duty was apparent. The girls chatted
and laughed, gave and borrowed experiences and luxuriated
in an occasional flight of laziness. Indeed, I could not but
regret somewhat the freedom of speech, for I heard many
things in the course of my afternoon’s work that were far from
wholesome. The girls at my table were mostly of Irish par-
entage and seemed to be responsible to no one superior in
authority. They were a romantic set of young women with
apparently no interest in life beyond a speedy marriage.
Plans had been laid for a picnic the following evening in
Douglas Park, and all the girls were going, each having invited
a “ feller.” Various schemes were contrived for securing their
favor. From what I gleaned picnicing is by no means uncom-
mon among the “necters.” On Sunday evening all the girls
had been “to the parks” and during the week they had “gone
walkin’.” One girl was engaged. It was her last week and
provoked some mad speculations of luxury and pleasure. The
bride prospective expressed a weakness for cream puff and
“skirts with lace on,” in both of which extravagances she
intended to indulge when she became a wife.
Some of the girls told me they had been at school, having
passed through the sixth grade, and were inclined to go to
church, “only it’s little you can make out of the church.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
105
They get all they can out of you and don’t care what becomes
of you.” They didn’t read the newspapers, they told me,
“because there’s never anything for working-girls in them.’’
Most of them shopped at the cheap stores, but confessed a
total ignorance of fabrics and methods of economy. For
instance, one girl with a complexion like a dried hazelnut
was making herself a tan-colored satin that she paid forty-nine
cents a yard for, and with which she intended to wear ‘‘a
white felt hat trimmed with a wing and snow veil.”
The forewoman gave me a dozen blue silk scarfs and sent
her assistant to instruct me. That young woman was a
domineering individual with an experience of ten years and
•	very pretty dimpled hands. She used her needle with consid-
erably more grace than her nose, and there was a deal less of
the velvety quality in her voice than her hands. I failed to
probe her. She was curt in her answers, boorish in man-
ner, and very economical in the knowledge she imparted.
Twice she came to see my work and each time said : “It won’t
do; rip it out.” The work paid fifty cents a dozen and I
finished twelve and one-half cents worth by five o’clock. I
had to do my own pressing and furnish my own thread and
needle. The girls I interrogated earned from three to ten
dollars a week, the latter after eight year’s experience. Plenty
of girls made seven dollars a week, but a constant changing of
fashion prevented a higher average the year round, as it was
necessary to learn the style before being able to turn out more
than ten dozen a wee^. Take it all in all E. Brothers’ was the
most humane factory in which I had any experience.