io6
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
VR KTCI
NO REST FOR THE WEARY AND WRETCHED< CHILDREN
THIS SIDE OF THE GRAVE.
A DAY AMONG THE BUTCHER-SHOPS AND CANNED-MEAT
FACTORIES OF THE STOCK YARDS.
The birthright of an American girl may be a glorious attri-
bute on the deck of a transatlantic steamship or the floor of a
London ball-room, but it is not worth the flop of a brass far-
thing in the cloak factories of Chicago. •
It was high noon by the Jesuit college clock When I got to
the rear of —West Twelfth street, where David K. has his shop.
Nobody in but an old man. His face is seamed with wrinkles.
He has a big nose the colo: and texture of a mushroom; his
head and half his face is covered with hair of chinchilla shades;
his back is humped at the shoulders and his clothes are filthy
and worn. I ask for work and am told that no hands are
needed. He has a pocket that hangs across his waist and into
which he puts rags, pieces of thread, hooks and eyes, pins,
buttons, and the empty spools that lie on the floor about the
vacant machine chairs. I watch the silent old man as he
drags his loose slippers across the floor, and behold I have the
key to wealth ! But it doesn’t profit me worth a copper. So
I survey the premises.
One room, windows on three sides, and all shut. From the
north windows I get a view of a two-story hen-house. Filth
inside and out. The outlook from the east side is a picture of
poverty, squalor and filth. The buildings have no paint. In
some are human beings, in others dumb brutes. Half-washed
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
107
clothes dangle from window-sills and clothes-lines in tatters
and rags. In the yards are heaps of manure and the alleys
are foul-smelling and filthy. Along the street move flannel-
shirted, horny-handed, sooty-faced men, to smoke, to rest, to
quarrel, and to dinner. Passing and repassing all day long
and every day—Sunday and Saturday—are young women and
old women, 'youths, maidens, and children, with as many
cloaks or coats or pants as they can carry. The garbage boxes
are reeking with filth. Some one had thrown ashes or sweep-
ings in the box, and neither the swill man nor the ash man will
remove the contents. Mayor Roche and Dr. De Wolf, equally
ignorant of the manner in which their subordinates discharge
their duty, permit this sort of thing to go on till the very
neighborhood is poluted and the air poisoned by these reeking
masses of corruption.
“Oh, it’s nothing,” I am told, and I see for myself and
count from Karasick’s window and door eleven of these gar-
bage piles that swarm with maggots and flies. The sun beat-
ing down on the cheap pine box has made the wood shrink,
and from constant kicking and shaking ajid probing ot the
miserable rag-pickers who inhabit this locality the frame-work
has been loosened and the wood carried off for fuel, leaving on
almost every block one or more naked heaps of decaying
matter.
Out of the south windows I look into the kitchen of some
dozen wretched families. The children are numerous and al-
most naked. They are unshod and unclean, so very unclean
that it is barely possible to tell their complexion. The mother
breaks a loaf in pieces in one house and throws it to the little
dirty faces on the doorstep. In another home the children eat
from a frying pan and next door all drink from the spout of the
teapot. Down in the yard is a pile of filth in which the chil-
dren play and are followed by a lot of chickens. The stable
below stairs is locked, but stronger than bolt or hinge is the