no
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
like slaves on custom coats. There was a fire in the stove on
which men heated their irons, and two boxes of garbage just
outside on the pavement filled the room with their odors.
Leaving the field of cloth and cloaks I applied to E. A. M.,
the confectioner, on West Jackson street. The forewoman is a
thin, bloodless young woman, with wild eyes and unmistakable
evidences of overwork.
“No, I can’t give you a place. You are too big. I want
little girls. All these hands have been sent to us by peddlers
because they are so very poor. You couldn’t live on the salaries
we pay. These children get $3 and the old hands up-stairs $4.' ’
The midget laborers are filling pans with chocolate and ma-
ple caramels. Young boys cut the sheet of soft, brown saccha-
rine stuff into squares which a dozen little girls transferred to
the tins. At deep troughs filled with pop-com and gum-drops
were other children filling small paper bags. Up-stairs the
girls worked on stick goods. Their quarters, while rude and
bare and hot from the steaming syrup-pots, were light and
airy.
At Brougham’s packing-house on Jackson street, I applied
for work in the canning-room. The foreman was kind. He
took me out in the dark, little packing-room, in which the
light and breeze were fenced off by walls of tin cans. The
girls were pale and thin and very young. But, oh, how they
did paint! Each stood near a wall of cans that had just been
filled with meat—pressed corned beef, tongue or ham—still
warm. At hand was a pot of Japan paint with which the girls
brushed the ends and rims of each can. I told the foreman I
knew I could do the work. He tried me. I daubed on the
paint, held the brush wrong, and got more color on my hands
than on the can. The girls laughed at my awkwardness; so
did the foreman. I was chagrined with my failure and asked
for some water to clean my hands. The man gave me a ben-
zine bath and then showed me to a basin of dirty water on the
--—
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	111
♦
surface of which a hundred or more dead flies were afloat.
The quarters in which these girls work are little more than
deadly—no sunlight, no free, fresh air, no place to sit, and the
blue paint smeared over their hands and arms and dripping
from the breast and belt of their dresses. Their wages are $5,
but each is expected to paint at least 1,500 cans per day.
Dirty little girls in rags and broken shoes, many of their wrists
not bigger than your two fingers, were in the rear of the shop
scouring cans, for which they are paid $3 a week. The hours
of toil are from 7 o’clock to 12 and from 1 o’clock to 5. The
girls were gay and inclined to be happy in their dungeon slav-
ery, for, after all, they ate better paid than scores of help in
the employ of P., J. S., E. and Mrs. W.
At the suggestion of the foreman I took a Halsted streetcar
for the stock yards and with so much experience presented my-
self at the F. C. company. I did not see Mr. N. K., and what
is more, didn’t want to see him. The girls, numbering a hun-
dred or so, were at work up on the second floor in one of the
numerous buildings. They painted and labeled by the piepe,
getting 5 cents a hundred. Plenty of girls handled 2,500 cans
a day, giving them a salary of $7.50 a week. Experienced
hands earned $9 and beginners and dryers $4 per week. No
provision was made for the comfort of these girls. They swept
the greasy floor when necessary, packed the goods and were
jostled and pushed about by the bloody butchers and greasy
packers. All worked in cast-off clothing, many literally drip- *
ping with paint. A great many of the girls were Irish, but
the Swedes and Germans were numerous. I cannot understand
how they endure the work which, while purely mechanical,
requires them to be on their feet from 7 to 5:30 every day, and
from all I could learn they do not stand it. Few with whom
I talked had been in the yards five years; all wanted to get
married, not to have money and nice clothes and theater tickets,
but to get rested.