112
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
At P. D. A’s packing-house the girls were paid 3 cents to
5 cents per hundred for labeling and japaning cans, wages
varying $6 to $9.. Beginners received 75 cents a day for two
weeks, or until they could handle 1,500 cans per day, when
they received $6, and were raised to the minimum figure as
their skill increased. As at F’s, they were young girls with
haggard faces, emaciated figures, and work-weary bodies. At
noon they sat in the windows to eat their lunch, and fhe vessel
on the zinc from which they slacked their thirst was nothing
more elaborate than a tin-can cut down. It is certainly very
good of Mr. A. to build Sunday-schools, educate struggling
artists, buy pictures, and patronize music, but these young
women are human, if their senses are dulled to the sickening
smells of the slaughtering establishment, and a clean sitting-
room with neat walls and chairs in which to rest at noon and
clean towels for the 6 o’clock toilet, would not be wasted
charity.
These girls are called “tough.” Perhaps they are. Per-
haps their language is not chaste nor their manners pleasing,
but Mr. A. and Mr. F. know as well as need be known that
their hearts are pure and their lives blameless. Considering
their origin, their nature, their surroundings, and their associ-
ates they are too good to be put on the level they are.
WORKING NEARLY A DAY ON A CLOAK TO EARN TEN CENTS.
GIRLS WHO TOIL FOR THREE DOLLARS A WEEK
AND BOARD THEMSELVES.	*
Another day in a shop—a shop where I get a blinding
headache and a dime. The place of servitude is at Milwaukee
avenue, and the proprietors are Mr. and Mrs. S. It is nine
o’clock when I enter what seems to be a store. On the right
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	115
is a small office containing a desk and a mountain of cloaks.
Two yards back is a long cutting-board at which the father,
mother and son are chalking or cutting out cloth. The old man
has the everlasting frosts on his head, and in the wife’s hair is
more silver than jet. The son is still in the morning of his
manhood. His manner is arrogant, his tone harsh, and his
treatment of an old Christain who has come in with a letter,
presumably from his wife or daughter soliciting work, is pain-
ful to contemplate. I feel like a vagabond when Mrs. S.
demands an explanation for my presence.
“I was here yesterday and you told me I might come to
work today,” I ventured to remark.
"Oh, yes. You was the one that looked on yesterday and
asked all about the wages, hey ?”
This is overwhelming and I tremble internally, expecting
every moment to be seized by my jersey collar and Phyche
knot and thrown out in the car-track. I bite my lips to keep
my knees from knocking.
When she says “Well, you may come this way,” I am
thankful for my safety and follow. Half-way down the store is
a partition some five feet high, hung on both sides with cloaks
and jackets, bjaided sacques and Dutch dresses, which contri-
vance screens the girls on the opposite side from view. A
short distance back is a perfect embankment of work, fringe and
inner trimmings. Passing these two fortifications we came
into the presence of the “sweaters,” all but six of whom are
running machines at a tremendous speed.
“Girls! Girls!” exclaimed Mrs. S.
Some of the little engines stop.
‘ * Girls! Girls! ’ * she says again.
They all stop. And so does my breathing.
“ This girl has come to work here,” Mrs. S. continues. “ I
aint got no time to learn her. You all help her if you got
time.”