ii4	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
With this unheard-of and unexpected introduction Mrs. S.
leaves me. I find a dusty table near a dirty zinc to put my
hat and ask for a machine.
“Can you run a machine?” the head of the establishment
asks.
I tell her a falsehood which I defend by personally arguing
that I can do anything that these untutored young foreigners
can perform. Determined to try I drop into a chair before a
big “Household,” and agony begins. I endeavor to apply
my knowledge of the Wheeler & Wilson to the machine.
Trouble follows. The wheel is not under the table and is not
meant to turn forward. The thread breaks a dozen times in
twenty-four, minutes, the intervening time being spent in
threading the needle, which, like an equestn^ne, has a side
seat. I hem and tuck rags to get the stitch. The. bobbin
gives out, and how to fill it again, thread the shuttle and lace
the top cotton, gives me much trouble. A little German girl
at my left throws an occasional hint of value to me. She has
a frightful cold in her head which she frankly confesses she
caught the night before in Wicker park. I offer to help her,
agreeing to stitch all day if she will only tell me how to put
the work together. It’s a bargain. I bind the edges of the
front, back and side gores, get the hood in fchape, and stitch the
pockets. Just as I am beginning to feel like a Household
conqueror, Mrs. S. comes along and throws a bundled Dutch
dress on my machine-table and tells me to make it. ,1 protest
that I had much rather help Annie, fearing I may not get the
cloak right.
“Just make it. When it aint right you rip it. That’s the
way we learn the girls.”
Of course the string and sleeves, cuffs, hood, pocket laps
collar, fronts, side bodies, back gores, back straps, and three
skirt breadths are spread out before me. I sieze a bunch of
bias binding and I bind and rip and rip and bind till noon,
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
”5
marveling all the time at the work that literally rolls out all
about me. Poor Annie’s eyes get red; so does her little nose;
her face swells, her voice gets husky, and her handkerchief is
as wet as a laundry. She has only made two garments work-
ing from seven to twelve. “I only made forty cents this
morning,” she said, “but it’s this awful cold.” lean make
six when I work hard. I usually earn seven dollars a week.
Sometimes it’s more, but not often, and some times it’s less.
I must go home now.”
She folds up her work, covers her machine with her apron,
has the two dresses entered in her book, and goes off to nurse
her cold.
A girl with a complexion like a peach and light blue eyes
says she has been working four years. “I began at fourteen
in Z’s factory,” she says. “ There I got so I could make one
dollar a day easily, but I had awful head aches and the doctor
said I must only sew three days in the week. Then I went to
the shop every other day for a year, but the pain didn’t go
and the doctor said it was the steam power and made me
leave. Since I have worked by foot my head is all right.
Yes, my parents are living and own a little cottage on Sedg-
wick street.”
The hand girls were all beginners. They were all ages
from eleven to sixteen, earning one, two, and three dollars a
week sewing on buttons, butting in bustles, and filling the
inside linings. Most of them were Swedes and unable to
speak a word of English. All the hands brought big lunches
of bread, sausage, or ham, and fruit pancake. I was hungry
enough to devour my worst enemy, and notwithstanding I
interviewed a dozen or more of the diners not a morsel was
offered me. There was an hour for noon, but most of the
machines were thundering away at 12:30. The closets, two
in number, were down in the cellar, and the foulness of the
place was sickening. A kerosene lamp, hung four feet from
4