116	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
the floor partially lit the dark passage along which were
coal-sheds and closets in suites for the several flats ^n the
building.
At 3 o’clock my cloak was not finished. I had pains in my
head and back, my ankles a9hed, and my feet were scalded
with heat and perspiration from the constant motion of the
machine. No need of acting this time. iVqiply went to Mrs.
S. and told her I had no dinner and was too faiqt to work
another moment.
“Didn’t you have no lunch?” she asked. “Why didn’t
you tell me ? I could have given you a cup of coffee.”
I thanked her for her good intention and asked to be paid.
“ Well, that Dutch dress is 20 cents. If you done half, you
get half pay. That’s right, ain’t it? I tell you you can’t
make a living at this; It’s too hard for a woman that ain’t used
to it. I would like to pay more, for when the girls make I
make, don’t you see?”
For the sake of exit I acquiesced, took my dime and went
out. At the door I met two little Polish children, Polly and
Annie S., who told me they lived on George street, near Car-
penter, and could not get work in the shop till they were
leven. ’ ’ Both had a basket of greasy, filthy victuals they
had picked along the alleyways, and into Polly’s hamper I
dropped Mrs. S’s bright dime for luck.
Some day soon I shall use the money so kindly sent to the
editor of The Times for a shop-girl’s shoe and stocking party
(and little Polly and her sister shall have a card.)
You poor, dependent, neglected girl, who started out in real
earnest, without education or training, toeam your own living,
from the bottom of my heart I pity you. I have been think-
ing all day where I could send you for aid and instruction.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	117
A YOUNG WIDOW ATTEMPTS TO SUPPORT HERSELF AND
CHILD BY MAKING OVERALLS.
STARVATION STARING HER IN THE FACE, SHE SOLD HER
HONOR RATHER THAN PART FROM HER BABY.
One of the white slaves of Chicago stood in the prisoner’s
dock at the armory police court yesterday, moaning piteously.
She was young and her face was pretty. The big policeman
who stood at her side said he had arrested her for soliciting
men upon the street. She was booked as Kitty Kelly. The
frail, unfortunate girl brushed away her tears and told a story
that went straight to the heart of every man in the crowded
court-room. She was a white slave and might have worn
away her frail life sewing that her character should remain
pure and unsullied, but the grinning skeleton of starvation
haunted her by day and night, and in desperation she sold her-
self to the tempter. She w’as pale and thin and fierce hunger
had left marks upon her young face.
“Oh, judge, I never did such a thing before! I never did
it before! For God’s sake have pity on me!" and she wrung
her hands in agony and sobbed convulsively.
“Nonsense,” said the justice, trying to be stern. “You all
say that.” t
“My baby! my baby! Oh what will become of her? For
mercy’s sake don’t fine me! I have no money, not a cent.
Oh have mercy. I never was out before, surely I never was ! ”
The big justice looked inquiringly at the big officer and the
big officer with a touch of emotion in his voice, said: