12
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
sample. The little table-mats paid 50 cents per dozen, but
before a girl was able to crochet enough to live on she was
obliged to take collars made of fine thread in such an intricate
pattern that it was an utter impossibility to earn $1 a month.
No woman seen had earned $15 in less than sisSijonths, and
one of the most skilled hands had been on a 60-cent lot .since
June 3.
By inquiry I learned that many women paid $3 and gave up
the work when they saw that it was not possible to make the
$15 necessary for the rebate. This fact does not appear in the
•circulars, and it is not till after the contract has been signed
that the equivocal tactics of the concern are understood. Sev-
eral cases are on record at the Woman’s Protective Agency, but
no judgment has been obtained, as the agreement stands valid
before the law. All that can be done in the matter is to warn
the public against a concern legally incorporated to grind the
life out of the women and girls unfortunate enough to patron-
ize it.
PUT THROUGH AN IMPUDENT CROSS-EXAMINATION TO GET
** \ t
TO SEW CLOAKS AT FIFTY CENTS EACH.—MAKING
PANTS AND SHIRTS AT SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS
A DOZEN AND FIND YOUR OWN THREAD.
At R-& Co’s and R- Bros. I applied for work and
was told to report in the morning to sew on cloaks.
The manager in S’s on Market street wanted hands and
offered to engage me at once. I was most impudently cate-
chised, some seven inquiries requiring as many false statements.
What was my name, place of residence, last position, amount
of wages received, state of my health, nativity, married or
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
13
single—to which I answered “neither.” Here was a dilemma.
“ Oh, yes, widow? ” and an inordinate ha ! ha!
“Yes.”
“Grass widow, eh?” with a sneer.
“ How much do you pay for cloaks, I asked, tired of the ordeal.
“ Fifty c«nts each.”
It was enough and I left the creature still anxious to solve
the widow question.
By the time I reached L’s on Market street, I was in a reck-
less frame of mind.
“ Is there any work for a good sewer?” I asked the girl in
the office.
“Yes, plenty. John give her some pants.”
John had eyes the color of calico, and a complexion like an
immature tomato. He led the way to the cottonades, which
were cut, trimmed, and tied up in bundles of a dozen garments
each.
“Here’s a sample,” holding up a pair of overalls of brown
cottonade. “ The work is cut out, but you will have to do
everything yourself. I want you to make the fly extra strong
and press the bottoms. We pay 75 cents a dozen and you find
your own thread. * ’
‘ ‘ Seventy-five cents for a dozen of these pants and find my
own thread?”
“Yes, or I’ll give you 80 cents a dozen and give you linen
thread if you sew the buttons on fast.
“No, I guess, I won’t take the pants. What other work
have you?”	\ v
“ Here are cheviot shirts, if yot^d rather. Gusset the tail
here and the sleeves, stay the bosom and arm-holes, and make
the collar and wristbands extra strong. These pay 75 cents a
dozen.” He offered to give me three on trial. The thread
cost 5 cents, car-fare 10 cents, and I should have left 3 cents
after the job.