130	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
and nothing of her own just rights. Her life is made up of
years of toil, months of privation, and weeks of struggling and
striving to keep up with the rushing throng, ravenous for her
bread and envious of her miserable position. She works from
dawn almost to dusk, carrying every dollar of her earnings to
some wretched home in which abide parents, brothers, and
sisters—often, too, relatives having absolutely no claim on her,
none of whom love her, and none of whom show by word, act,
or deed that her generosity, goodness, and real nobility of soul
is appreciated.
She goes without shoes the best part of the year, albeit in the
employ of a shoe manufacturer; she go^s without pretty
dresses that younger sisters may be clad, annShe money that
should go to the purchase of the hundred little niceties that
add so much to the beauty and charm and daintiness of budding
womanhood is withheld for the purchase of family flour or
text-books for the younger children who are at ^phool. What
does she get?	\
Three meals a day, a roof at night, and car-fare.
Perhaps you think she doesn’t know any better, hence the
bliss of ignorance.
Well, now, don’t be too sure about that.
I had just been to P., D. & P. shoe factory, on the top floor
of the N. R. J. building, looking for work. The girls were
crowded together like sheep in a stock-yard pen. All were at
machines. Some stitched shoe-linings; others lined the
vamps and uppers; others “tapped;” a few worked button-
holes, and all the experienced hands turned the shoe. This
consisted in hammering down the seams till the crash lining
could be turned in and made “ to lay smooth.” . To accom-
plish this each girl had to wield, not a wooden mallet, but a
heavy iron hammer, from three to ten strokes being necessary
to flatten out the leather seam. This done there was the top
facing to put in, the holes to be made; and the buttons to be
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
121
marked, and the same process repeated again and again until
5:30 o’clock. The wages vary.
In order to get work I was told to begin at table-work. That
means sewing on buttons—two stitches for each button, finish-
ing button-holes, and pasting sock-lining in the sole of
the shoe.
How much ? Two dollars a week.
At the end of a year I would get a raise of $1. At the end
of four years I would be given a machine and a yearly raise
till I reached $8, the maximum wages for female help. But
Messrs. P., D. & P. didn’t need any help, and I left the big,
barn-like shop with its naked timber roof and brick walls,
glad to leave the leathery atmosphere and the hollow-eyed,
stoop-shouldered, miserably-clad men, youths and girls. Like
their neighbors across the court, the firm disregards the neces-
sity for modern conveniences. There are a few closets and a
sink, and there all obligation ceases. Nothing is thought of
the four flights of steps to climb, of the deafening machinery
overhead, of the impure air and the dirty floors and stairs.
As I was leaving the building I met two girls on the landing
who asked, “What luck ?” I told them there was no show for
inexperienced girls.
“Oh, we’re broke in long ago. Worked for the U. S. com-
pany four years. It’s a good enough place, but I got a lame
wrist turning shoes. The hammering is too hard. I’ll take a
machine but I won’t turn any more.
“Oh, I make $6 a week. Began at table work for $2.25.
They raised me to $3 in six months; after that I got $3.50,
then $4, then $4.50, then $5, and last January they gave
me $6.
“We have six children and I give all my money to my
mother. My father is a builder. He doesn’t have much work
in the year, and winter times when he’s laid off I don’t have a
cent to myself. Only car-fare, that’s all. Sometimes I don’t