122	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
have any new dress the whole year. My sister is younger than
me. She works at neckties and makes $9. We two keep the
family.
“ Fun, any fun I have is walking once in awhile. We don’t
go out nights. Mother won’t let us. She makes us go to bed
so we can get up early. We’re always up at 6.
“I’d a good deal rather be a boy, because boys have a better
time. They can keep their money if they want to, but girls
have to give up all they make.	«
“ No, I don’t read the papers and I don’t go to church either.
Haven’t anything to wear. Most of the time I stay home and
sew. My mother goes to church.”
At the factory of the U. S. company, West Lake street, I
took a machine and tried to stitch shoe linings by steam power.
I didn’t get on well. The girls were very good to me. One
put my machine in order and the way she handled it amazed
me. She could not have been a day over 16, but she pulled off
the belt, took out the shuttle, threw the whole top over on its
side, and examined into the very bowels of the little engine,
using first a screw-driver, then the tention gage, and after
tightening and loosening alternately, she oiled the whole thing,
cleaned it and set it up again. For more than thirty minutes
she worked on a piece of morocco before getting the right ten-
tion, bravely persisting, however, till all was right, when she
gave me a lesson and went back to her own work. The steam
was too much for me. I couldn’t manage it. It kept running
off the seam, and I pressed my knee against the starting wheel
to make it go slow until the buckle on my garter got red hot.
Kate’s sister sat across the aisle making button-holes, and see-
ing my helplessness, came over and gave me another lesson.
“Take it slow,” she said, “like this,” flying down the heel
seam like a flash of lightning. “Don’t worry, you’ll learn.
I learned myself. You must press the wheel real hard with
your leg and then it will go slow.”
*	* ■* •
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	123
I thanked her, and for an hour pressed the wheels on the
outer side of my right fore-leg which tore the cloth, raveling the
edge, and getting very much disgusted with my clumsiness.
Just as I was beginning to admire the grateful taciturnity and
generous forbearance of Foreman S. he told me I had “better
get out,” but I begged for tolerence, and sewed away on a pair
of rags for another hour. A second time I was told to quit,
and again I begged for mercy, but when the wheel in the re-
gion of my knee began to burn, I threw down the few pairs of
lining I had succeeded in stitching and retired.
The shop where I had my struggle with the steam-power
was cut off from the rest of a factory by a partition. Along
the windows looking south were the machines, making two rows
or aisles, and set so closely together that they almost touched.
At each was a girl whose powers of endurance were seemingly
no different from the machine operated. Some young girls sat
at a cross table finishing buttonholes, for which they were paid
$3 and $4 a week. Men stood at side tables cutting out shoe
and slipper uppers, and behind the machines were young boys
of 12, 13 and 14 years, cutting linings. Younger boys were
employed in an adjoining department pasting sole-lining in
the newly-made,shoes, and scores of men were engaged soling,
heeling, shaping, and polishing. The walls and ceilings were
paneled with soot; oil dripped from the rumbling machinery
overhead, and the floors were as black as ink. Although I saw
no evidence of rigid discipline, every man, boy, and girl la-
bored witfi more than conscientious zeal. The labor was ser-
vile. Convicts could not have been more industrious with the
prison lash curling about them. Work began at 7 o’clock,
and while I was wrestling with the steam I saw a number of
girls Stop work and eat part of their lunch.
Notwithstanding the patient fidelity and untiring industry of
these people, their neglect is a disgrace to the manufacturers
of Chicago. The closet in which I hung my hat was so dark