124
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
that I had to find a nail with my hands. Thinking my eyes
had been tardy in adjusting themselves to a low light, I re-
mained in the hole long enough to know that nothing but fe-
line optics would suffice to scan it. At the entrance was a tri-
angular piece of looking-glass that some good soul had bol-
stered up between nail heads as a tribute to beauty. Neither
the stairs nor hall-ways gave evidence of recent sweeping, and
I would question the judgment of anyone ^nturing to assert
that they had been stubbed this year. The ctbsets were in a
shocking condition—unfinished, unswept, and abominating to
the senses. Not only the outer door, but the three inner doors
were unhinged and lay in the filthy inclosure obstructing the
unfortunate girls who enter the place. I saw with my own
eyes, that the girls visited this model toilet-room, in groups of
not less than two, one acting as guardian for the others. At
the very entrance of this inclosure is the sink, a small iron
affair of the cheapest character, supplied with a single faucet.
Towels ? No, nor soap, either ! But who wants them ?
You can’t wash in the dark, and although there is a window
on the landing, the dust and dirt that cover it is as good a
shade as a curtain of brown Holland would be.
One of the girls told me she had been in the shop three
years and was getting four dollars a week. “ Lots of the girls
earn five and less, but some I know get seven and eight.
They are old hands and work on fine shoes.”
I asked a girl what she got when she was late.
“Get? We get jawed. But we ain’t late; were all here .
at seven o’clock.”
There was but a thirty-minute rest at noon as the factory
closes at 5:30. Work is good the year round.
At S. & A’s., on the floor below, where I inquired for work,
I received this edifying piece of information from the foreman :
“ No, I guess I can’t take you. If you were an experienced
operator I could give you a job, but it won’t pay me to teach
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
»25
• •
you I can get little girls of twelve for $2.50, and all I want
for $3 a week to finish. When table work is dull I put them
at the machine and show them how to work it. The novelty
attracts them and I find they spend their noon and every spare
minute running up seams. In that way they soon pick up the
work, and when I am satisfied that they can run a machine, I
give them one, raise their salary fifty eents or one dollar, and
get raw girls again to do the table work.”
Both firms might be reminded that there is some law relative
to the hiring of child labor and the necessity for fire-escapes.
I found the physical condition of the girls much better than
among the cloak-makers, tailoresses, and seamstresses, but in
point of poverty all seem akin. The girls wore clothes that
were ragged and dirty, many giving the very young girls the
appearance of little sweeps. Worthless shoes were worn as
much from necessity as from a sense of comfort, and nothing
in the habits or habiliments of these little money-makers
betrayed even the ordinary comforts of life.
CEASELESSLY, WEARILY UNCOMPLAININGLY WORKING
AWAY WHILE'THEIR EMPLOYERS AMASS MILLIONS.
SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A DOZEN FOR MAKING OVERALLS
IS PAID THE DRUDGES FOR THEJR HARD LABOR.
On the southwest corner of Washington boulevard and
Union street, towers a spacious brick building, on the third
floor of which H. W. K. & Co. manufacture much of the cloth-
ing that supplies the country trade. The place is far from
uninviting. Clean halls and well-kept stairs proclaim the
faithful service of a janitor, and the girl who has worked in