126	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
I
“other shops” blesses the man at the rope every time she rides
in the neat mirror-lined elevator.
“H. W. K.,” calls out the pilot. “First door to your
right. Open and ring.” Entering I found myself in an iron
cage looking through the grating into the shop. I felt like a
felon waiting to be sentenced, but when I found the bell I gave
it three vigorous pulls and peered in at the workers. It was
the same show of bondwomen, with roundN^oulders, bowed
heads, red, brown, black, gold, and yellow hair,* actually
brushing the machine arms, faces of that ghastly pallor peculiar
to down-trodden youth. Nearly all were clad and shod in the
rags of poverty. The machines were run by steam and the
rumble overhead and the whizz along the floor deadened all
other vibration. I counted eighty girls who bent over their
machines, working with an industry that was simply fierce.
Did you ever price a pair of overalls?
Well, they can’t be bought in this town for less than 75
cents, the very price that H. W. K. & Co. pay an experienced
operator for making a dozen pairs. The operator must be
experienced, for the firm don’t want learners; they -won’t be
bothered with them. They have no time to teach. Anybody
who comes to their store is expected to buy, and anyone who
comes to their shop is expected to work and work well. It is
not that it takes time to teach a new girl how to press her
knee against the power wheel, how to hold the goods, and how
to thread the wind-running machine, but there is the wasted
cotton, the unnecessary handling of the jeans and cottonade
that takes the dressing off, and the skilled labor that would be
sure to come by and ask for the chair if the learner, the
wretched beginner, ambitious for more bread, was no*t in the
chair. This skilled labor can be relied upon for that excellence
of work and attention to detail that characterize custom work.
Your fashionable tailors may pay $3 for having a pair of
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	12 7
trousers made, but the stitching is not a whit better than Mr.
K. gets on cloth pants for $1.25 a dozen. The difference is
in the fabric, in the sewing silk, and the trimmings, but slip-
shod work is not accepted from the “sweaters.” Let one of
them run crooked leg seam and the forewoman will fling
the garment back, command correction, promise dismissal if
the negligence is repeated, and you can depend upon her for
keeping her word.
*7 I tell you, swell dressmakers and private family seamstresses
who get $3 a day and your dinner and supper, these young
girls who are slowly grinding out their lives for the wholesale
shops, the middle shop, and the slop-shop, would put you to
shame could the quality and quantity of their work and your
work be compared. Placed in one of these factories with a
machine in front of you and a dozen overalls at your feet at 75
cents a dozen, it would be more than four weeks before you
could earn that amount each day.
It is not enough to see that these girls can finish six, ten,
twelve, eighteen, or twenty-four of these pants in ten hours,
but to appreciate the work and calculate rightly the terrible
exhaustion, one must take the machine, take the garments and
take the experience for one’s self.
While I waited in the little, wire-fenced vestibule for some
one to answer my ring I saw a girl of fifteen years or so faint
at her work and drop over on the machine table. Although
her comrades were on both sides no one looked to her condition
till their seams were finished. The girl on the left brushed the
matted hair up from the pale forehead, rubbed her white face
with her stained hand and advised her to go home.
Did she? No. She lay on her arms with her eyes closed
and the cool air from the open window fanning her face.
Across the way a building was being erected and fragments of
the material came in with the breeze, but her sensibilities were