128
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
not offended, and she slept at her silent shuttle and smiled as
she slept, as if in defiance of the dust and lime and thundering
noises of the mighty machinery of power and wealth.
The gate was opened by a man who referred me to the fore-
woman at the rear end of the shop. I walked back through a
perfect avenue of material. Fabrics on the left towered far
above the heads of the girls, bolts of uncut cloth, boxes of
trimming, and bundles of cut goods composing the wall. On
the right stretched work tables with newly-made flannel shirts,
laborers’ overalls and shirts and woolen pants, rising tier upon
tier waiting to be ticketed and boxed and shipped north, west,
and south as far as the trade stretches. Thifc^orewoman was
not unpleasant and by no means unkind. She did not need
any help.
“ Then why don’t you take your sign down ? ** I asked.
“Well, I’ll tell you. I have all the girls I can possibly ac-
commodate. All the machines are taken, but all may not suit.
Some of the girls are not doing well, but I want to give them
a few days more and if I see they can’t do the work I’ll dis-
charge them. Then I’ll give you a chanfce, or any one who
calls. ’ ’
“ But they are working. See how they work ! It’s inhuman
to work women that way.”
“You think so? Well, we won’t talk about that now.
Yes, they are working, but they have to do a certain quantity
of work to be satisfactory.”
“What do you call a certain quantity ?”
“Well, enough to justify us in having them about. The
work is cut and has to be made to fill the orders of the house. ”
“What do you pay a dozen?”
*	‘ I pay seventy-five cents for some kind and eighty-five cents
for better overalls ; one dollar for others, and one dollar twenty-
five for wools.”
“ And the finishers?”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
129
“Twenty-five cents a dozen. That is, to turn up the bot-
toms. All the other work is done by machine. It’s not hard
work.”
A good deal harder than I should care to engage in for my
daily bread.
Here, as elsewhere, the weekly stipend varies from a fair
competence to starvation wages. Plenty of hands earn three,
four, four and a half and five dollars a week, and a minimum
by slaivish industry and an experience beyond their years suc-
ceed in making seven, eight, nine, and ten dollars.
The factory is well managed, and H. W. K. & Co. will get
full value of every penny paid the poor, pale, slight young
women. Be it said to the credit of these manufacturers their
factory is abundantly lighted and ventilated. The walls are
finished, the calcimine is white and pleasing, and the floors
are kept clean. There is a toilet-room near the center of the
shop—a big place, with three closets, along sink, and not any
too much light. The plumbing is perfect, and the girls revel
in the luxury of three long towels a day. The towels, and
closets, though, are few enough for the convenience of a hun-
dred girls.
PATHETIC STORIES OF THE LITTLE ONES WHO ARE SAC-
RIFICING YOUTH, BEAUTY, AND LIFE ITSELF TO MAMMON.
HOW THE QUESTION OF MARRIAGE IS AFFECTED BY YEARS
OF CLOSE APPLICATION TO- SHOP DRUDGERY.
P. K. company ! Pretty name, isn’t it ? Done in gens d’arm
blue letters on a navy-blue ground it makes an exceedingly
effective sign. The very colors suggest the claims of long
descent and blue blood.