130
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
But the P. company on West Washington street has nothing
to do with blue blood or gentle women, and there is nothing
pretty about it but the sweet young girls of fifteen and sixteen
and the frail children of nine and ten whose lives are being
wound about the great wooden bobbins,, and from whose
cheeks the roses of health and beauty are slowly absorbed by
the flying threads in shuttle, needle, and spindle.
P. K. company is only another name for the women’s shirt
factory at West Washington street. Up one flight of stairs I
pass into a tidy little office where a fine looking gentleman
gives me greeting and calls the forewoman, Mrs. M. She is
young and pretty. Her voice is sweet and she has a good
face.
“Yes, I have work but it won’t pay you. You can’t
live on the salary. I wouldn’t advise you to take it. The
table girls only get three dollars a week. Their work consists
in sewing on buttons and finishing the armholes of the shirts.
We have generally employed little girls of twelve and thirteen
to do it. Better work pays by the piece, five and ten cents
a dozen for knitting a finish about the neck and armholes and
bottom of the shirts. But you would have to be experienced;
we couldn’t take the time to teach you.”
I told her I would try the table work until I could get
something that paid better, as I was wholly dependent on my
own resourses.
“That’s it, you see. I don’t like to take you and have you
leave as soon as you begin to be useful.”
“But I can’t live on three dollars a week to save my soul,
unless I subsist on cold water and wind and sleep with the
birds.”
In as mild a manner as possible she told me that the P. K.
company never meddled with the private affairs of its employes,
and agreeing to promote me whenever a vacancy occured that
I was able to fill. I started to fasten the tail ends of knitted
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
shirts at the munificent sum of fifty cents a day, or five cents
an hour, work beginning at 7 a. m., and closing at 5:40 p. m.
with thirty minutes for lunch. I paid five cents for a paper of
sewing needles and five cents for a set of crochet needles before
doing a stitch of work, so that at noon I had but fifteen cents
to my credit.
When the forewoman took me to the furnishing table I
failed to see where she could put me. Down the long sides
and across the ends were the girls, thirty or more, unpleasantly
crowded, for the weather was hot, the room close, and the
double row of shirts piled two and three feet deep intercepted
any breeze that came in through the side windows. Begin-
ning at one end she made the girls “shove up a little,” and
with this allowance from fifteen room enough was made for
another chair to which I was assigned.
The work was li&ht, requiring but a few stitches at five or
more places. Where the pattern was imperfect I had to cro-
chet a couple of scallops, otherwise a few stitches with a zephyr
needle sufficed. The slowest girl finished five dozen shirts a
day, and some twice that number. A few at the board sewed
on buttons and a regiment filed past with armfuls of shirts, in
or ready to be put in boxes. We were so crowded that nearly
every passer-by knocked me in the head with her elbow or
load, while the girl at my left drew her^needle under my very
nose at each stitch. I could neither take up nor lay down my
scissors without annoyance to the little girl on my right.
I marveled as I looked at these girls that they should be
permitted to labor as they did, ten hours a day in a dark, hot,
room, exposed as they were to all manner of disease and the
dangers of fire, for scarcely more wages than sufficed for food
and car-fare. There was not a single attractive feature about
their surroundings. The smoke from the engine had blackened
the walls and the ceiling so that in the rear of the shop no
calcimine was visible. At either end were two windows and
\