134
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
A PROPOSITION OF MARRIAGE TO A PRETTY AND BRAINY
SEAMSTRESS IS TAKEN UNDER CONSIDERATION.
CORRECTING AN ERRONEOUS IMPRESSION THAT “NELL
NELSON’S ARTICLES ARE NOT FOUNDED ON
FACT.
Nothing short of a Philadelphia lawyer, a Chicago health
officer, a proprietor or a “ devil-chaser” that hits the spot once
in a thousand times could, without a guide, explore the laby-
rinth that is known as H. S. & Co.’s paper-box manufactory,
on R-street. It occupies only the three upper floors of a
four-story building, but the stairways are so dark and narrow
that one must grope his way from somewhere to a supposi-
tious somewhere else, which resembles nowhere when he gets
there, because the rooms are so overcrowded with material that
one employe cannot in many instances see her nearest neighbor
two yards away.	*
Of the 120 employes, ten are mere girls, who get from $2 to
$3 a week, while the others receive from $5 to $7.50. Each
girl keeps her own account-book, and at the request of the
proprietor submitted it to inspection. It showed the exact
amount the owner had been paid each week for many weeks.
One advantage of working in this stuffy place is that there is
work the year around.
Mr. S. had the usual explanation to make as to the employ-
ment of young boys and girls and no doubt made it truthfully.
Their parents needed their assistance and would sign any
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
135
sort of certificate as to age, and supplement it with personal
solicitation asking employment as a charity. In extreme cases
he negotiated a compromise with his judgment, as most man-
ufacturers do, and gave the child employment
“ What kind of work do you do?”/ A group of*five boys
was asked at the noon hour.	/
“ All but him binds packages; he glues.”
“How old are you?”
“ We’s pretty old and gettin’ older all de time.”
The closets are separate and fairly decent.
The ventilation is bad.
“I am a man of few words and you have no time to lose, so
I will proceed direct to business. Do you want to get mar-
ried?”
The proposition was made by a Times reporter to an attrac-
tive young woman employed as a seamstress in a custom shop
on the fourth floor of S. N’s building on the southwest corner
of W. and H. streets on the North side.
The reporter h^d seen the young woman but once before,
and after that meeting the following paragraph was printed in
The Times on August 13:
“An intelligent trio, evidently good friends, gathered in a
corner, and between bites talked freely. One was a thorough
American, lived on May street, and walked back and forth
from her work, the round distance being fully three miles. An- w
other, whose yellow hair bespoke an ancestry from the region
of the midnight sun, walked about the same distance. Many an
avenue belle would give half her inheritance, for the form, face
and figure, to say nothing of the brains of this every-day sew-
ing girl, wearing out her young life for $6 a week. But she
made no complaints. Independence more than compensated
her for the hardships of the weary day.”
Usually “popping the question” is a trying ordeal to a man,
even when none but the two parties most interested are present.