136
The White Stave Girts of Chicago.
What must it have been in this case when half a score of pairs
of bright eyes were gazing in astonishment and as many ears
were trained to catch every syllable ? Usually, too, the woman
addressed is very much embarrassed, or seems to be. This one
was not.* With a musical laugh followed by an interrogation
point, she awaited further developments, Emma, the American
girl, rallying her good-naturedly the while
“ You know you want to get married,” said Emma. ‘‘Why
\
don’t you say yes? ”
Not wishing to prolong the agony beyond the proper limit
the reporter produced the following letter:
Chicago, Aug. 13.—To the Editor: One who reads your articles
with more than passing interest, and who deeply sympathizes with the
cause of honest labor, has sufficient romance in his "make-up” to per-
form his part in assisting the young lady of brains referred to, and if
honesty of purpose, good bringing up, etc., accompany the brains, the
lady can find at the head of an honest, temperate, working-man’s home
a pcace and comfort not found in “wearing out her young life” in pur-
suit of a mere existence. This is in good faith, and any acknowledgment
of it will call forth—confidentially, of course—the name and address of
the writer.
It was interesting to watch the play of the girl’s features as
she read the letter. At first curiosity was uppermost; then
came an expression of sadness as the passages expressing sym-
pathy for honest labor were reached, and finally a slight flush
and a smile as she read the offering clause.
“ Will you accept ? ”
“Don’t you do it at once,” said Emma, tantalizingly.
“ Keep him waiting for a while till he gets real anxious.”
“Who is the writer?” asked the girl to whom the letter re-
ferred. “ He must live where girls are scarce.”
“The letter is dated and postmarked ‘ Chicago.’ ”
“ Well, I should like to see the writer. It takes something
more than temperance and honesty to make a man. I shall
not embrace the present opportunity to answer.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
137
“Nor the man either?”
“ Nor the man either,” she said with a merry laugh as she
caught the gentler force of the play upon the words.
“Will you answer the letter? ”
“ I will take it under advisement, as politicians say»”
“ If you don’t accept turn the letter over to me,” chimed in
Emma. And then noticing the grounds in her coffee she
added : ‘ ‘ Can you tell fortunes ? ’ ’
. Everybody on the Times tells fortunes, and of course the
visitor could. “This man is a blonde, tall, somewhat portly,
and a widower with three children,” he began.
“Can’t you make it five? She just dotes on children. If
she won’t take him I’ll be No. 2 and run the chance. Can’t
you induce him to call here? We are tailoresses here, but
when we appear upon the street we are-’ *
“Well, what are we then?” asked the girl with the light
hair.
“ Why, then—then we are ourselves. What time is it? ”
“Seventeen minutes to 1 o’clock.”
“Then we have just two minutes to live,” and the trio
began preparations for renewing their toil after the forty-five
minutes allowed for lunch. The author of the letter might
wait a long time before finding a brighter or better head for
his household than this girl whose ancestors worshipped Thor
and Woden.
“Nell Nelson,” in a recent article in the Times, described
the trousers manufactory of K. B. O., on S. street near Division,
as a two-story and basement frame, the stories being used for girls
and the basement for horses. This is true as to the girls, and
only the qualifying expression “in part ” is needed to make it
fit the basement, the rear portion of it being used for stabling,
with all that the word implies. Miss Nelson, it will be remem-
bered, worked an afternoon at this place, making a pair of
trousers for 5 cents, and after relating her experience quoted