I3»
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
the words of a young woman who sat at the same table and
who complained that the shop was cold.
Of course the girl had no idea that her language was to
appear in print and spoke carelessly. But Mr. O. was displeased
and the girl was promptly discharged from his employ. The
Knights of Labor were promptly notified ab^so was the Times.
Yesterday a reporter was instructed to investigate the case and
if the facts were as reported to assure the girl, whose name is
Mary Kane, that the Times would secure for her another and
better position.
Mr. O. was found on the upper floor of his shop and pretty
mad yet, though he had had a week to cool off in. But he
soon quieted down, led the way to the office in the basement,
and sent for Foreman M. Then the Times article was read
and liberally commented on, M. doing most of the talking
because he could turn sharp corners in English a trifle more
skillfully than O.
“Mary Kane has left, but she wasn’t exactly discharged,’*
said O. “If the rooms are cold in winter why didn’t she com-
plain to me instead of ‘ Nell Nelson ? ’ I know they are cold
at times, but not for half a day. I frequently feel chilly my-
self in the early morning. I know the house is not a model;
It was built direct\y after the fire and needs many improve-
ments. Why didn’t Mary Kane complain to me?”
“ She preferred no charges against you. In a casual way
she stated to a table-mate that the shop was cold in winter as
you now acknowledge. The situation is this: If you have
discharged Mary Kane because of a chance word, The Times
will see to it that she immediately secures a situation in some
other shop.”
After a few moments Mr. O. said the girl was one of the best
in his employ, that nothing could be said against her work or
her character, and he would be willing to take her back.
“You may tell Mary K. she may come back to work if she
w
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	139
wishes to. I don’t want to do anybody any injustice. All I
had against her in all the years she worked for me was that
remark about my shop being cold.’’
“ But I may not see her, as she is away from home/*
“Well, just go over and tell her mother that it’s all right
and Mary can go to work when she likes.”
It was the work of an hour, but no bull-dozing or pleading was •
used. The case was squarely discussed on its merits, and if
Mary K., whom all the neighbors, including O. himself, say is
a steady, industrious, and thoroughly deserving girl, walks into
the shop to-day she can have her old seat and at the same time
the consciousness that she has not compromised herself or been
compromised in the least. Both O. and M. will be glad to
welcome her back, which is much to their credit.
\
4