14
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
John said: “That’s so, but I can’t help it. If the work is
satisfactory you can have a six-dozen lot.
It was very good for John to sympathize with me, but I
thanked him and said I would look a little further.
A HARD DAY’S WORK FOR FORTY-ONE CENTS.—LESS FOR-
TUNATE WORKERS WHO EARNED ONLY ELEVEN
CENTS —A SICK GIRL’S SAD STORY.—THE
HOPELESS MISS WHO LONGED TO
BE MARRIED.
At the N-R— Jersey Company I was tbld to apply at
the factory on West Washington street.
“Work is given out at 7:30 a. m.,” the clerk informed me,
“ and if you have any snap about you you can make a good
living.” By way of getting the required snap I went home, ate
my dinner, and was in bed at 8 o’clock.
The next morning I resumed the rags of poverty and at 7
o’clock made my debut as a factory hand. I was one of 120
women, ranging in age from 15 to 60. The factory where the
jerseys are made is at the corner of W-and U-streets,
with elevator entrance in the rear and work-room on the fifth
story.
The girls began to arrive at 7 o’clock, and at every trip oi
the elevator some twenty or more were carried up-stairs. I
took a chair in one of the machine rows, and for an hour did
nothing but watch the preparations for work in that human
hive. The room was 50x 138, with an open unfinished roof,
and brick walls calcimined. Light was admitted from rear and
side windows. The pressmen had their boards and furnaces
at the south end of the room, where all the work was pressed
prior to being boxed and ticketed for the trade. At the ex-
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
15
treme opposite end was the cutting room, fenced in from the
• •
rest, and between the two were the work-tables where the hun-
dred odd girls stitched and finished the jerseys.
Along the brick .wall were nails irregularly driven, on which
the girls hung their hats and wraps, dresses and collars.
Nearly every one took off their dress and waist, turned it inside
out, put it on a nail and put on a calico or old stuff shop suit.
A few took off their corsets and nearly all the machine hands
changed their shoes before work. On the stroke of 7:30 a bell
rang, the power was turned on, the machines began to buzz
like little saw-mills and the day’s work had commenced.
Heads of brown, black, yellow and gray bent so n^r the fly-
ing shuttles that every minute I expected the bangs and fluffy
crimps would get caught in the machinery'. The faces were
sad and so very, very pale that I shall never look at a jersA'
again without seeing them. The average age may have been
23, but not less. There were girls of 17 and 18 and some
world-weary women past 50, all working for little more than
enough to keep body and soul together. The work circulated
in baskets—long chip hampers with stout handles—that held
a dozen, with room for five times that quantity. A great deal
of time was lost by the workers in getting the contents of the
basket examined, checked off on the ticket and the ticket
stamped. If it had been the last chance for life I don’t believe
the girls would have worked any harder for salvation. Scarcely
a head was raised from machine or lap. Shoulders were bent
down, chests hollowed in, and faces drooped so low that I could
not begin to make a study of the ‘ ‘ windows of the souls ” before
me. At 8:40 the proprietor of the chair I was in asked me to
vacate, and I walked down through the narrow isles of 9ewing
women to the “forelady ” and asked for work.
She asked me if I wanted to take & machine, but I expressed
a preference for finishing. I was given a number, a basket
with five jerseys to finish, and a chair beside a girl named