16	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
I
Hannah, who, being engaged by the day, was told to "show
me.”' Hannah had blond hair and talked with the brogue.
She gave me a needle as long as my engagement finger, and
the most meager instruction compatible with obedience. For-
tunately I had my thimble, and crossing my knees I threaded
the gimlet-like needle with silk and proceeded to hook-and-eye
a jersey. Rembering the treachery of any shop clothes I ever
wore I filled the two hooks and eyes with sewing and after
testing them proceded to face the collar. I made poor work of
the bias band, for my needle was so coarse that it split the
satin. I told Hannah about my misery but she wisely said it
was no fault of hers, and went on with a fo-a-dofesp lot she had
been doing two days and a-half. Thinking it would be «a good
way to get acquainted with my neighbors I asked several for a
fine needle and at last exchanged the crow-bar Hannah had
given me for a fine cambric article. It worked better, and at
the end of two hours I had bound the arm-holes, faced the col-
lar, tacked the front facings and the bustle piece, and put two
pairs of hooks and eyes in a black jersey. The dye was not
fast, neither was the wool, for my throat, ears, and nostrils
were tufted with black lint. I was African from the finger-
nails to the wrists. The front facings had to be trimmed off.
I had no scissors. Hannah was ungenerous with hers, and I
lost about fifteen cents worth of time borrowing the Weapons.
At noon I had finished four jerseys and was so sore about the
neck and back that I could scarcely rise from the chair. I
began to scent hot tea, and looking about saw a big girl called
Emma brewing three pots of Japan over one of the press
furnaces. She had her front hair in curl papers and was
whistling “ In the Sweet Bye and Bye.” About thirty girls
went to her, each with her own cup, for a supply of tea. I
remarked to one passing my chair that her tea looked awfully
nice and asked where she got it.
*	‘ From Em. She makes it and we each pay two cents a week. ’ *
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
17
On the stroke of twelve the machine stopped and 120 tired
women stopped too for thirty minutes’ rest, and the food that
could hardly be called refreshing. In the main it consisted of
brown bread and butter. In some parcels there was cold meat
and cake ; others had pie ; a few a bottle or canteen of milk,
cold tea or coffee, but I did not see a particle of fruit. One
little girl who had been stretching jerseys at two cents apiece
made a lunch on three Graham crackers and a piece of custard
pie, which she ate reading a paper-covered book. I counted
thirty-seven girls with a lunch of dry bread, fifteen with sand-
wiches, and ten who ate cold pancakes. Twenty-three girls
were without any luncheon whatever. During the intermission
the elevator stopped running and no one left the building but
myself. Less than ten minutes was spent over the wretched
meal. At one side of the west wall separated by a ten foot
pine partition, was the toilet room, containing an iron sink
with one faucet of running water. Here the girls crowded
like so many cattle, each with her bit of soap and grimy cotton
towel, to wash. Dress waists were loosened and neck, faces,
arms and hands lathered with soap and rinsed as the chance
permitted. There were three closets, unflushed, untidy, and
unwholesome. Set up against the wall in this enclosure, with
the faucet run through the partition, was a barrel of ice water
inscribed in big letters: “Two cents will be collected every
Saturday for ice water.” Besides this luxury every hand pays
twelve cents a week for the use of the machine.
At one o’clock I finished my basket which I dragged to Tom
the book-keeper, who took my name and credited me with five
garments. No price had been put on the jerseys as they were
sampled goods, but the forelady thought they would go at
sixty cents a dozen, which meant twenty-five cents to my
credit.
I didn’t get any more work till two o’clock, because the fore-
lady was in the toilrt-room having her bangs done up in paper.