18	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
She was a pretty woman, by the way, with a good* face and a
shock of beautiful auburn hair. She had been in her position
for six years and was drawing a salary of $35 a week. The
girls had a good word for her generally, but she struck me as
being a woman without heart. At her appearance I was given
a basketful of jerseys to finish button-holes. I worked like a
Trojan for an hour, at the end of which I won the heart of a
little girl who sat at the end of my table facing the wall. She
had been sitting still so long that I called out and asked if she
were ill.
“No. I haven’t any work.”
Tired almost to exhaustion and as hot as a newly-built mus-
tard plaster I was only too glad of a chance to transfer my
interests, but she declined. It was too hot to work; she was
going away soon, she said, and didn’t care to do any more.
“When did I begin? Today. I worked in a box-factory,
but it was so dull I could not earn 16 cents a day. My mother
wants me to pay her $2.50 a week board, but how could I with
96 cents. This is no better. I came at 8 this morning, and I
have only made 11 cents. I am 21. Beaux? Yes, some.
I have one steady fellow, but I don’t know if he will marry
me. I hope he will. ”
She told me he earned $75 a month as telegraph operator on
the board of trade ; that he was “ steady as a steeple, and the
only fellow she ever loved.”
I told her how to go about catching the prosperous telegrapher
and rehashed a recipe given me by no less a personage than
Mrs. John M. Sherwood, which I had never tried. She was
going to a picnic at Garfield park at 6 o’clock, and brought
over a 25-cent chocolate cake to show me. Then she loaned
me her scissors, told me good-by, and went home to dress , for
the fete.
Nothing of any importance occurred till someone passed the
news that a girl was sleeping in the closet. Half a dozen left
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
19
their machines to look at her, Hannah, my mentor, among
them.
“Oh, you just ought to see her fast asleep with her mouth
open.” It was more than I could stand. I threw my button-
holes in the basket and went to the toilet-room. Sure enough
there was the poor girl sitting in the dirty place, her head
resting against a folded apron, breathing in the foul air that
reeked with filth and disease. The walls of the closet were
black with pencil marks, the floor was strewn with lint and
thread, and the pale face of the sleeper looked ghastly in the
darkness. She had tied one end of a string to the latch and
the other to the drop chain.
“My dear child, you musn’t sleep here. Are you sick ?”
“Oh I am so sick.”
Instantly there were a dozen willing hands to help her out
to a window where a chair was placed for, her. We rubbed
her temples, chafed her hands, bathed her head, and got her
some lemons. After making her toilet she came over to my
table, and as I sewed away at my button-holes she told me
her story.
“ Rose and I are only six months in this country. We came
from England with our brother and live on Carpenter street.
The climate doesn’t agree with me and I am sick all the time.
At first we worked in Marshall Field’s, and Rose and I made
fringe. We got $7 a week and were so happy. It was awful
nice.there. We didn’t have to pay for drinking water or any-
thing ; there were lots of towels, whole cakes of soap, and oh,
it was so clean. 'We had a foreman over us, and he was as
good as a brother to us. Sometimes we let our money lay
and drew it in a pile; oil, such a lot it was! We put away
very much of it. But I got sick and all we ’ad saved went
for doctor and medicine. Then the work stopped. They
took our names though and promised to send for us in the fall.
For a while we worked in the box factory, but liked to starve.