20
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
Then we went to Ellinger’s and made cloaks at 30 cents each,
but it was so hard, and we couldn’t please thell^io matter how
we tried. We came here today, but its only> fit place to
starve in. All the work they gave me was a dozen jersbys to
button ; that’s 11 cents a row; had two dozen holes to finish
at 16 cents. Twenty-seven cents for the two of us! How can
we live on that? ” and the child began to cry again.
By way of comforting her I took her name, promised to help
her, and gave her my check for forty-one cents. She didn’t
think it would be honored, so I took it to the cashier myself
and demanded pay as I was not coming back in the morning.
“ No ma’am,” said Tom, “ you don’t get it. Come around on
the 20th and I hunt you up.”
At 5:30 work ceased. Each girl had to sweep out her place,
clean and oil the machine, and return her basket and check.
I paid a nickel to have my corner swept, and finding it impos-
sible to wash up sans towel and soap I got under my veil and
rang the elevator. The pressers laughed and told me to try
the stairs—five flights. Down I went. At the second I went
into the salesroom to buy a jersey. One of the firm waited on
me. His magnanimity was sublime. The identical black
jersey that I had received 5 cents for finishing was offered to
me at $2. I declined. By way of interest one hundred dozen
garments are turned out of the factory every day in the year.
As near as I could learn the salaries average $4 a week, but
plenty of grown women are not allowed to earn over 28 cents
a day.
Work begins at 7:30 A. m. and 12:30 p. m. Anyone five
minutes late working on time is fined an hour’s pay, and for
the loss of an hour the pay of half a day is knocked off. Piece-
workers who are late are kept idle from one to three hours. A
girl who loses her ticket forfeits pay for the entire lot, notwith-
standing the entry is on the books of the firm.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
21
A CLOAK CONCERN WHERE NOTHING BUT FEAR OF THE
LAW SEEMS TO PREVENT THE USE OF THE LASH.
»
EIGHTY CENTS A WEEK FOR LABORING FROM 7:30 IN THE
MORNING UNTIL 5:30 IN THE EVENING.
I did not realize the ignominious position of respectable pov-
erty till I went to E’s cloak factory, where labor is bondage,
the laboror a slave, and flesh and blood cheaper than needles
and thread. Corporations are said to be without heart, but
this concern is a commercial inquisition. It puts its help on
the plane of slavery, and nothing but civil law prevents the use
of the lash.
„ The factory is on the third floor of the large brick building
at the east end of Madison street bridge \>n the south side of
the street.
Elevator? Not much.
An elevator is a luxury, and luxuries have no place at E’s.'
You will be short of breath when you reach the top of the
fourth flight, but in recovering you have time to take in the
surroundings—a great barn of a place with a single charm of
good light. There is plenty of vacant room, but the women
are huddled together, elbows touching along the line of
machines. Beneath the west windows flows the river; at the
south end of the room, not ten feet from the crowded table, is
a tier of closets, and on hot days the combined odor of the two
is shocking. Nobody in his employ dare complain about
smells, cold, heat,, work, wages or rules. But whoever heard
of martyrs complaining ?