22
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
My experience began at 7:50 a. m. and lasted just three
hours. When I climbed the dusty stairs I took a ten-minute
rest at the top. Everybody was at work but a hungry-looking
man about 27 years old, with skin the color of a Russia turnip
and thin, peaked features. He was dressed in a pair of heel-
less slippers, a white shirt, and a pair of shop pants that a
clothing store pays 18 cents for making. Neither collar, vest,
coat nor suspenders burdened his emaciated form. He moved
among the workers with a cat-like tread, his shoulders droop-
ing and his knees opening and shutting with a sort of accor-
dion movement at every step. He passed me several times as
I stood at the desk and eyed me so unpleasantly that I turned
my back to him.
After waiting at the desk for three-quarters of an hour, I
asked the clerk, a sweet little girl of 16 years, with pretty red
cheeks and dark eyelashes and hair, for work, and was told to
wait till the-forelady came round. A dozen girls were waiting *
too, some with cloaks, others with check-books and tickets, and
a few with hand-made fringe. The fringe-girl I spoke to. She
told me she received 5 cents a yard for making an imitation of
seal-ball fringe, such as winter cloaks are trimmed with. She •
had a piece three yards and a quarter long that had taken her
all the previous day to make. Here was a child of 15 working
nine and a half hours a day for a competence of 16^ cents.
Will the Prairie avenue woman, who, at the suggestion of Mrs.
Ormison Chant, is trying to find one hundred girls who are
earning less than 28 cents a day please enter “Maggie W-on
the list, and will the women of the P-agency who want a
new field of inquiry, call and see this slim, snake-gaited,
jaundice-faced creature who has charge of this human mill.
Maggie’s fringe being measured and her book checked, she
was given another box of material and went off to weave it
into tassel-trimming. The girl who took her place would not
be interviewed. She didn’t know how much stitchers earned
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
23
and wouldn’t tell how much a week she could make.” She
was, possibly, 25 years old, with a deathly pale face, and
looked as if she hadn’t eaten any breakfast. Her successor
was less reticent. “I’m here since May, but I don’t like it;
the boss is a horrid thing. Him and the forelady watches us
all the time, and they don’t give us hardly any work. 1 can
only make one cloak a day; some pays 30cents, some 40cents,
and some 50. Yesterday I had only 60 cents coming to me
for two days. Are you long here? Oh, you won’t stay. They
search youi bag and your pocket when you go home nights to
see if you have any thread or pieces about you.”
Before I had a chknce to talk w'ith another unfortunate the
little rosy-cheeked clerk told me “it’s against the rules for new
hands to stand here. You must go over by the stairs and wait
till the forelady comes.” I smiled at the pretty child and she
rewarded me by bringing a chair to me a few minutes later.
All means of cummunication being cut off I amused myself
making sketches of the shirted, slippered, sleuth-like creature
as he passed. '
This pastime was interrupted by the appearance of a fat
woman. She had on a black sateen suit that fitted her puffy
figure like the raiment of a well boiled suet pudding. She
carried herself like a drum major on a dress parade and by
way of ornaments wore a gold watch with a double coil of gold
chain at her belt, gold earrings, a gold breast pin, gold cuff-
buttons and two gold rings. Bigger than bust or bustle was
the woman’s head I discovered when I asked :
“Are you the forewoman?”
___ •
“ Forelady, yes. What do you want?”
“Work.”
“ What can you do ?”
“Sew.”
“Wherehave you been working?”
“N. R. Co.”