28	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“Very much.
“ What kind of work have you been doing ? **
I admitted I had never worked in a factory, but told him I
could sew and was willing to do anything that would give me
a living.
“ Well, you ought to have a chance—a good chance if you
are willing to work — but it’s dull just nowand I don t see
where we can put you. You say you can sew. Run the ma-
chine too? Well, we start our skirt and cloak rooms in a
couple of weeks, and then we can try you.” .
“But I must have work,” I persisted, “at once.
Mr. W. sighed a little and left me to see a customer who
had just then entered. While I was fixing up a romance in
case any inquiry was made as to my age, name, residence and
position in life, a sad-faced Irish mother came up the four
stories with a sixteen-year-old daughter. They were as poorly
dressed as myself, but considerably less happy. The mother’s
hands were hard, thin and work-worn, and her face seamed
with care. She wore an old bonnet, a coarse black dress, poor
shoes, an old shawl, and an expression of injury, despondency
and severity. Annie was a well-developed girl, with a good,
wholesome face, red cheeks, bright, fun-loving eyes, big hands
and feet, a most ungainly manner, and a nice figure. She had
been crying, for her lashes were wet, and she seemed expectant
that a crisis of some sort was near at hand. I soon learned
that the mother missed her calling when she adopted maternal
duties. The family lived in the region of Blue Island avenue
and consisted of the parents and growing children, two or
three having married. Annie was the youngest and “had to
do something for her grub, ” as the mother said. Fora long,
time she worked in a box factory and made good wages, but
the work was not steady, and last January she came to W.’s.
And what do you think she did ?
She earned 80 cents a week cutting dress reeds from 7:30
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
29
o’clock in the morning until 5:30 in the evening. Annie will
be 17 years old in September. Here is her account of
the work:
“Oh yes, I like it. They don’t pay me much, but the fore-
lady’s good to me, and Mr.-is awful kind. The girls is
nice, too. The only thing I don’t like is that they’re always
cuttin’ me down. I can’t make hardly nothing.”
“Last week? Oh, last week I wasn’t here. I staid home.
It was so hot I didn’t want to take the trouble to come down
for 13 cents a day and walk and put up my lunch.”
Thinking the girl's calculations were amiss I turned to the
mother, who confirmed the statement, adding: “It don’t pay
to feed that kid to work on the pay she’s getting.”
“It’s what all the girl’s gets,” added Annie, beginning to
cry. I played mother for a little while, told her she was a
good girl to help her parents and not to mind, for there was
plenty of work, and if she comes to the Times I’ll help her
get it.
After the Irish gray eyes had been dried with both corners
of her little black shawl she gave me the prices at which she
had been working. Here they are:
•	One cent a gross for cutting steels in eleven, fifteen and
eighteen inch length. The work is done by machine, the
operator using one foot and both hands constantly.
Four cents a gross for sewing buckles on bustles.
Three cents a dozen for basting bustles.
Four cents a dozen for springing bustles.
Seventy cents a dozen for putting elastics on reeds and box-
ing the same.
Wages in this department vary from 60 cents to $3 a week,
$1.50 being a very fair average, and this too, for girls of 19
years and less.
When the manager had dismissed his guest he waited on