30
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
Annie’s mother, who turned traitress, betraying her own child
to the enemy in this style :
“Can Annie come back, sir?” she asked.
•	“ Why, I guess so. What’s been the matter?” ,
Annie rolled her finger up in black fringe, hung her head,
and allowed the tears to stream down her cheeks.
“Oh she’s so sassy,” kindly volunteered the mother, “and
she comes home to me with a batch of stories every night
about your cuttin’ down the prices. Sure I can’t believe a word
she says.”
“Well, you come in the morning, Annie, and I’ll see what
we can do for you.” With this dismissal poor Annie followed
her mother, who doubtless felt that she had done her duty by
the child.
I recited my piece to the low-voiced gentleman, who said
there was plenty of work in the bustle department, but he
guessed it wouldn’t be pleasant for me, as the girls were only
sixteen or so. I tried to assure him that I didn’t care about
the company, that I only wanted a chance to make a living
for myself.
“Well, I don’t think you could earn enough to support
yourself at machine work. Come in about Monday and I
thii\ we can give you something at $3 or so.”
“ Three dollars a week ? ”
“Yes.”
“God have mercy on the girls,” I said reverently and
departed.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
3X
EATING POOR CRACKERS AND WORKING FOR TWO MONTHS
IN ORDER TO GET A PAIR OF SHOES.
One of the chance acquaintances I made at the jersey fac-
tory worked three days for J-S—:— & C, Market street,
receiving 65 cents for her labors about ten days after leaving.
One*third of 65 cents is 21^ cents.
That is the way S-& Co. solve the problem; but the
question is one that capital, Christianity, and civilization are
invited to analyze.
“ Don’t never go to S—’s,” the little girl said, “ it’s an awful
place. ”
On Saturday I tumbled out of bed at 6 a. m. and donned
my factory clothes. On the way down-town the street-car met
with an eight-minute obstruction in the shape of a load of
bricks, and when I reached the manufacturing establishment of
j--S-- & C it was 8:32 o’clock. The elevator took me
up one story and I was told to “ get out. ” I told the boy at
the rope that I wished to go up to the work room.
“ You’re too late,” he said. 44 Have to take the freight ele-
vator down at the back of the store.
Down I walked as directed past long tables, that towered
with long cloaks, dolmans, ulsters, jackets, and short wraps;
past two or three busy unobserving clerks, past a pair of for-
bidding-gooking men who glared at me from under their black
hats and blacker brows; past an earthen-gray-stringy crash
towel that waved at half-mast over a dirty wash-basin, past a
tier of closets that emitted a stifling odor, and on down to the
packing-room. I waited for a big lusty packer to finish pum-
melling the mischievous little Swede who ran the elevator and