32
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
was carried up to the top floor with a box of cloth. When the
car landed I found myself at the extreme end of a room 50x80
feet, in an enclosure of wire-fence, packing-boxes, and cutting-
boards—beyond and between which I could see perhaps two
hundred persons, mostly women, bent ove^nachines, and
working as only slaves ever work. The thundenhg noise made
by the machinery deadened every other sound, even that made
by the cutters as they ran their heavy shears through the satin
and muslin trimmings. Sixteen persons passed me—men in
undershirts, trousers and slippers, with work in their hands;
men in business suits with work in their brains; girls of 13 in
rags and death-like pallor, with work in their arms; older and
pal<r girls and still older and paler women, some with white
hair and spectacles, carrying work to be pressed, examined,
altered or checked. Nobody noticing me, I asked a pretty
little girl who was cutting a bolt of satin into cuff-lining to
direct me to the forewoman and was told to go and sit down
till she came. I had hardly arranged myself on an empty box
when a playful young man capsized my throne and spilled
me in a heap of unmade cloaks. My first impulse was for re-
venge, but remembering that I was a poor girl looking for work
I contented myself by petting my damaged left knee and right
elbow. While mentally photographing the miserable, little,
bullet-headed sapling who caused my trouble, a young woman
brought me a chair and placed it in a comer, which convenient
spot happened to be off a narrow passage leading to the work-
room proper. My nose was not long in seeing a row of closets
that walled the south side of the passageway. Overhead was
a pasteboard sign with “No admission to the work-room"
printed in large, black letters. There was no place beyond
where I could sit or stand without being in the way unless
I went back into the freight elevator, so I resolved to stick it
out.
For almost two hours I sat in the dark, filthly place with a
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
33
handkerchief over my mouth and nose waiting for the fore-
woman to come and admit me to the shop. I watched the poor
girls pass and repass, their broken shoes slipping up and down
with every step, and their ragged skirts often catching new
gaps from the nails of the packing boxes. Just as I was
*	beginning to get myself in a state of passivity, as prescribed by
Mrs. Eddy, and was combatting the foul smell of the closets
with the wholesome healthy atmosphere of South Park, some-
thing in my head seemed to give way, and the whole factory
turned into a colossal whirligig. The big goose of the presser
and the little irons of the press girls began to play tag, and
machines, operators, finishers, wire-forms, cutters, examiners,
messengers, models, forewomen, teachers and firm, all joined
in the merry go round. To escape being knocked in the head
by a two-story press-board I clutched a little stitcher who said:
“ You an’t sick, is you ?”
I guessed I was. Bringing me a tin cup full of water, she
departed saying : “She’d be dociced if she didn’t go.”
An old man with grey hair and glasses showed me to the
freight elevator and I was let down to the second story. When
I reached the staircase I sat down on the top step to recover.
A portly man with a straw hat, full beard, broad shoulders,
and a suit of mixed goods, mistaking me for a tramp, came
out from the stock and informed me that “no peddlers are
allowed on the premises. Move off.”
I moved off determined to return another day.
t
STARVATION WAGES.
“ Boy, don’t take her down ! Don’t go down !! do you hear?
I’ll discharge you if you let her escape.”
There I was in S’s freight elevator with my day’s work in
my arms and the wire screen separating me from the furies of