34	The White Slave Girls of Qhicago.
Mrs. J. S., her forewoman, the second assistant, and the book-
keeper.
It was 5:30 o’clock Tuesday afternoon. I had made a big,
black cloth cloak all but sewing on the buttons, had resigned
my position as slave-stitcher, and had asked to be paid off. I
had been refused by the quartet outside of the elevator screen,
and so was on my way to the head of the firm, work in arms.
It was a great day for S. and me, particularly me.
It was another verification of putting “a beggar on horse-
back,” of getting a “nigger” to drive a “nigger.”
At 7:40 in the morning I had rolled my hat in my factory
jacket, and, stowing the bundle away in one of the holes
designed for that purpose by J. S. & Co., presented myself at
the office, a square of six feet near the center of the work-room
inclosed in a wire fence, where the forewoman and an exam-
iner wTere trying on two models the finished cloaks of the pre-
vious day. The models were tall, rather fine-looking girls.
They, I learned, received $8 a week and did nothing but *' try
on and look at themselves in the glass,” representing the highest
class of, factory girls. The forewoman, who jerked these
tall, animate figures fore and aft to see the front of a beaver
“empress,” or the back of a seal-plushy “mi-lady,” was very
nicely dressed in a black sateen figured with crosses of white.
And oh, how she talked! , In dislocated English, in a shrill
rasping voice, compared to which the notes of a pea-hen would
be melodious. My steady gaze annoyed her, and stopping at
the hem of a long coat she was inspecting she asked:
“ Why are you sitting there so much?”
I told her I wanted work. Bidding me “come along” she
pushed me with anything but motherly tenderness toward the
desk and told “ Rosy” to give me “ von of them samples.”
I took a place with nine others who were waiting for “Rosy”
to provide them with more work, and fell to studying my
neighbors. “Rosy,” the girl who kept the shop-book, gave
Mb'
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
35
out the work and trimmings, and properly checked it all, may
have been 14 years old. She was short in stature, work having
stunted her growth, and emaciated in face and figure. Her
hands were black with dye from handling the bundles of work.
“ I can’t give any of you work till Mary comes back,” she
said. “ She’s gone down to tell John to send up some.”
I placed a small box on the counter containing some graham
wafers and a lemon, which, being pushed across the board,
attracted Rosy’s attention. Sh^ uncovered the box.
“ Look at the lunch,” she said, and a bunch of heads came
together to see.
‘‘And a thimble,” said a blonde.
‘‘Yes, and scissors. Oh, and the little watch! And whose
is it?”
‘‘Them’s awful nice cakes,” observed a little creature of
about 13 years.
I offered the child a cracker, and when she refused I pressed
it on her till a hungry little friend said: v‘ She dasn’t. She’ll
be fined if she eats before the whistle.”
When Mary came up I was entered on Rosy’s book, given a
number and a “Homer.”
“How nwftih does a ‘Homer’ pay?” I asked.
Rosy didn’t know. Neither did Miss Seebert, the teacher.
I went to the forewoman and was told to get out of her way.
Persisting in knowing what revenue the “Homer” would
bring, the» attenuated, corset-cramped “forelady” asked me to
go away and find out any particulars whfen Mrs. Stein returned.
The teacher gave me a chair at a long, low table with fifteen
girls on either side, and asked me where I had worked before.
I mentioned the “ Never Rip” factory.
“Make cloaks?/’ she asked.
“No. Jerseys.”
“ Did you never make a cloak ? ”
“Never.”