36	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“Oh, you’ll have a hard time.”	V
Thirty pair of eyes looked at me.	.
“Can you sew?” I was asked.
“You bet.”
This bit of slang captured the teacher and set me on a com-
fortable plane with my neighbors. Reversing the tactics of
Ella Wheeler Wilcox, I began at the hardest task first, and
got the blonde-haired teacher to show me how to arrange the
collar. It was a rolling affair that was attached to a cape, and
had to be double-faced with satin. The bands were cut on the
bias, and novice-like I stretched the first one and had to rip it
off. Three times I ripped it and sewed it, and when I showed
it to a girl at my right hand she said: “It ain’t right. She’ll
pull it off.”
“ Would you tell me how to fix it?” I asked.
“Oh, I can’t. Go to Miss S.” She screamed to Miss S. to
come. Despairing of her aid I made another attempt.
“I’d show you if I had time,” my neighbor explained, but
I’ve been on this cloak two and one-half days, and its only
45	cents.”
There are chords in a woman’s heart which are struck by
accident only—strange, varying strings which, remaining mute
to the most earnest and passionate appeals, respond at once to
the slightest and most casual touch. I sympathized with the
poor little woman, who turned about and opened her
heart to me.
“It’s an awful hard place to work in,” she said. “ Prices
are going down all the time, and the girls can hardly earn
anything. Yesterday was pay-day. We’re paid the ist and
15th. I had only $6.10 coming to me for the two weeks. I
have the toothache all the time and I am a month at the den-
tist’s. He’s filling my teeth with cement and I don’t have
anything coming to me when I pay him. All I keep out Of
my wages is thirty cents for car-fare. I live out on F. and R.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
37
streets and can’t always walk in the morning and get here at
7:45. Sometimes I do, but I never ride home. If I didn’t
live home I’d—I’d—I’d—I’d starve. I would. What’d pre-
vent it?”
Interested in our talk a pretty, brown-eyed girl across the
table told us that she had been trying to get a pair of shoes
since June. I live at Englewood and have to keep out $1.25
for car-fare,” she continued. “ Monday I took out this 40-cent
cloak and it isn’t done yet. I took it to the forelady this morn-
ing and she said it was all right. Just a minute ago I showed
it to her and she ripped all these plaits and pulled the bustle
out. I’ll not be able to get it done tonight, I know. Last
fortnight I made only $4.20.”
“ Here, you girls, stop your talking and do your work or I’ll
have to fine you,” said the teacher.
“ You’r new and I’ll excuse you,” she said, turning to me,
but you musn’t talk any more. Where’s your collar? Oh!
you have the hooks and eyes on the wrong side. Rip them off
and put the hooks on the right and the eyes on the left. Then
press out your seam.”
I took my turn at the gas-stove, skirmished round for a piece
of paper or a rag large enough for a holder, burned my finger
and came near bumjng a hole in “ Homer’s” neck. When I
went back to my chair the little Englewood girl was in tears.
She had the fur down the front of her cloak too tight and was
ripping it off for the third time. The fur may have been nine-
tenths wool, but so uncertain wras the hair that the girl had
taken a fine comb from her box and w’as trying to comb up the
nap to hide the needle line. Her companion, Mary, had been
in equally h£trd luck. Five times she took her brown “mi-
lady” and five times came back with it. First the felting was
not thick enough; next the color was wrong; the third tim2
the buttons were not plumb; the fourth complaint was made
against a crescent bustle, Mrs. S. having expressed a preference