38
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
for two small square bags, and finally the ornaments on the
shoulders and front darts were not straight. Mary was a
pudgy young Irish maiden on whom the men and the world in
general had soured.
“ What will I do when I’m old ? I’ll be an old maid and live
by myself,” she remarked. “I’m saving to buy a house for
that time. Good Lord, I havn’t saved a cent in three years.
I’m here now two years, but I’m going to get another place.
Here’s my third day on this rag of a cloak that only pays 60
cents. Yesterday I got $6.10 for the fifteen days in July. I’m
sick of it now. Where do I live ? I have a room on Bleeker
street. I pay $1.50 a week for it and $1 for food. After I take
the price of lunches and car-fare from the rest I havn’t enough
to pay for washing the bedclothes.”
The teacher heard the best part of this account, and, coming
over to our table, put her arms about the morose little worker
and said: “ Don’t get blue; you’ll do better in a day or two.”
At noon the whistle blew and we stopped for lunch. Some
of the hands made tea and coffee on the gas stoves, but not a
soul left the shop but Mrs. S. and the models.
You pampered daughters of fashion, you children of ease,
you epicureans, who enjoy soups, entrees, fritters, roasts, past-
ries, could you but see the meal spread out at noon in this
factory, the chances are there would be a diminution of your
fastidiousness.
No. 99 was a pretty, brown-eyed, happy ^irl with curly hair
and a merry, brave, good face. She had two cuts of cherry
pie that did not aggregate a surface as wide as her hand. She
finished the juicy crust and I insisted on her eating a pair of
my graham wafers. Ninety-nine had a headache and was
going off for an afternoon in Lincoln park. The girl next to
her, who said she was “ the very devil,” devoured two links of
Frankfort sausage and a pear. A near neighbor had a slice of
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
39
brown bread and two tomatoes, and the girl she talked with ate
green apples and soda-crackers.
At five minutes past 12 we had eaten, drank, and were at
work again. Many of the girls went to the sink to wash their
arms, neck, and faces, scour their teacups or coffee cans and
comb their hair. While I was exploring the toilet (?) section
two men came in and I scampered. A nice arrangement this,
but no one seemed to mind it. If Dr. De Wolf wants to do
something for the factory girls he will have one of his assist-
ants go over and scent this portion of the S. estate, for it
*4 smells to heaven. ’ *	\
The excellent light that filled the Jersey company and flooded
the workshop of E’s top floor I missed at S’s, where the ceil-
ing is low and the ventilation and light inadequate. A sky-
light cuts the center of the roof, but with the curtains drawn
to keep out the burning sunlight the machine operators had
difficulty in threading their needles.
44 Please do not take any paper,” was the notice posted above
a pile of work ready for delivery. It seems the girls were in
the habit of going to this pile for bits of paper in which to
wrap their lunch-box or an old shop skirt, and when the
"‘searcher” found it difficult to look into the parcels for the
possible spool oT two-cent thread the firm took this method of
stopping the practice.
Over the iron sink was a placard warning the girls “against
throwing any slops into this sink under penalty of 50 cents.”
On the opposite wall hung the literary gem of the factory.
Here it is:
“Ladies and Gentlemen it is your inter-
est and that of your neighbors that no talk-
ing is allowed. Whoever talks loud is
fined 10 cents.”