46	The White Slave Girls 0/ Chicago.
“Any kind. May I have your card? I am in something of
a hurry.”
“ Mayn’t I have yours ?” he asked.
“Certainly; I haven’t my case, but if you will lend me a
pencil I will write you one.”
“With pleasure, my dear.”
“You are mistaken, sir. That is not my name/*
“ Ha, ha, ha ! I see you are a little mischievous, but for all
that you are my dear, producing three inches of Faber.
“ A card, please.”
“Bless me, I had forgotten,” and the natty sack-coat was
ransacked for a suitable card.
“Ah, here—this will do, I hope, in lieu of something more
conventional,” carefully placing on my sewing box a small
card with the address dowrn. I reversed the pasteboard and
read on the back :
Dr. Charles G— S—.
Office hours—
Residence— '
I1
II
Dr. Smith ! I know him quite well.”
Oh, you do, eh?” in a tone that left no doubt that his
stock in me had dropped. I wrote :
and handed it to my companion who read it with eyes that
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
47
seemed to have been wired open. While he crushed the doc-
tor’s card in his left hand, his right pulled out a splendid gold
watch, and with a most abrupt “didn’t think it was so late,
have an engagement at 9:45,” was off with more alacrity than
is conducive to grace. I looked after him admiring the cut of
his coat, the swing of his trousers, the polish of his shoes, and
the magnificent carriage of head and shoulders, and thought:
“May the Lord deliver us working girls.”
I also thought that I should like to meet my car friend when
I had my suffocating veil off and my good clothes on. Won’t
Dr. S. inveigle him to his State street office and present me?
I want to give him back his nickel and lead pencil.
When I reached the shop at 2155 Archer avenue the tailor
told me he only wanted one vestmaker and had hired her two
hours ago. • I then went over on Cottage Grove avenue, bor-
rowed twenty-five cents from my dressmaker, and rode down
to Lake street to gfet work in a feather-duster factory. There
may have been work, but there was no elevator and I was too
hot and tired to go up five flights of stairs to look for it. I
chose a cigar factory on Randolph, near Dearborn street, with
but three pairs of stairs to climb, and learned in the salesroom
that they had all the help they needed. I tried G., across the
street, wTho had no work, but enough goodness of heart to give
me a chair and a letter to two cigarmakers of his nationality.
I went to see F. G. on Clark street. He asked me if I could
/
“strip” and I told him I could. When he wanted to know
where I had worked I owned up that I didn’t know anything
at all about the business, but was anxious to learn and get
work. He didn’t know “how a sewing-girl would do at
‘ fillers,’ but you might go and talk with some of the help,
for you may not be satisfied to try even.”
He showed me the way across the hall to an eu.pty room.
The floor was littered with rags and paper and the dust was
heavy on the walls and wood-work, and in one corner was a