—	X
48	The IVk ;te Slave Girls of Chicago.
good-sized ash-pile. G. rapped for entrance, but there was so
much noise within that the door remained fast. When the
Spaniard left me I turned the knob and came upon a big boy
who was tickling his colaborers. The girls were flying around
the empty room and their pursuer had both screeching. The
fun came to a stop the moment I went in, and the young peo-
ple gladly told me all I cared to know about the business.
All they did was to “strip”—just pull the stem or mid-rib
from the leaf and put it in a “ book-filler. ’ ’’ I could get $4 a
week and steady work and the next year $6. My informant,
a little girl of fifteen years, has been in the shop two years and
earned $6.50 a week. She told me she was the oldest hand in
the shop; that she could “strip” as fast as a man, and put
the ribbon bands about the box before they were boxed.
At 12:45 o’clock I went into the shop and was given a chair
in front of a barrel filled with bunches of tobacco called
“hands” and lined with gunny-cloth. There was a little tin
pail of brown water for wetting I don’t know what near my
chair, and on the other side a pine board three feet long and
sixteen inches wide. When the tobacco leaves were stripped
and laid on the board it was dubbed a “book filler” and car-
ried off to the next room. In the shop with us were some
eighteen men or more rolling the “fillers,” putting on the
wrappers, shaping the cigars with a broad knife, and securing
the ends. Along the table some of the men were smoking
and others chewing some with their hats on, and all in their
shirt-sleeves. They were negroes, Swedes, a Chinaman,
Germans, and Spaniards, whose influence 011 the lives of the
young girls, while not really harmful, could hardly be called
beneficial. I stripped leaves enough to enable me to take in
the social condition of the inmates, the bad light, impure
atmosphere, the choking smell of tobacco, and the photographs
and prints cut from sensational papers that were tacked on the
smoke-stained walls.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	49
From the cigar factory I went to the E. U. Co. on Fifth
avenue, and sat for half an hour while the forewoman scolded
a pale-faced girl w'ho wore mourning. She had brought back
a dozen chemises for which the house paid two dollars, but the
work was soiled in the making—machine oil having wet the
cotton—and the forewoman refused to take it.
“ What shall I do?” she asked the woman, with a voice as
sad as her face.
‘‘What does anybody do with dirty things? You will
either have to pay for laundering the garments or rip out the
greasy sewing and stitch with clean thread.”
Then the girl was left alone by the manager, who went up
to the other end of the counter to get trimmings for six dozen
chemises that a tall young Swede girl was waiting for. The
forewoman wore a blue dress of plaid design, with a Marseilles
vest buttoned in it, and of seven rings on her left hand six
were set with what appeared to be diamonds. She had jewels- /
at her chin and in her ears and hair. She measured off the
lace edging and the tape and insertion and gave minute direc-
tions about fullness and the finish. The six dozen garments
were bundled up by Mr. H., the proprietor, and the elevator
carried her and her load to the pavement below. The seam-
stress told me she lived at home, and with the help of her
mother made twelve dollars a week.
“It is very hard work though,” she said, for we sew day
and night. I had rather do it than work down in a shop, for
I	have more self-respect. All the girls are not good and very
few are in a position to go with respectable people. They go
with bad company and their language is bad. Sometimes in
the winter they dance till daylight and go from the hall to the
shop. I don’t blame them. The life of a girl wbo has noth-
ing to depend on but her needle is at best a hard one. Still I
don’t like to be with a crowd of factory girls if I can help it.
The manager and superintendent are obliged to be strict, but