50
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
very seldom make any distinction in the treatment of a nice
girl and one who is not so nice. I don’t think I can tell you
how many ways there are to insult a girl. I have had a fore-
man just give me a look as I passed in to my machine or
handed in my sewing that made me wish I was dead. Then
there are the spiteful things the girls say about you and the
cutting remarks of the forewomen that make you feel like faint-
ing. The cashier may have a grudge, and if he doesn’t hold
your wages back till all the other hands are paid, he will throw
it at you, make you take ragged bills or give you a week’s pay
in small change. A cashier in a Jackson street cravat factory
once rubbed his hand across my chin “ to feel my whiskers,”
he said, and because I got angry and said I would report him
he saved up all the silver that had holes and plugs and made
me take it. My salary was $5.25 that week and some of it I
couldn’t pass. I took it to a bank and the cashier was kind
enough to give me good money for it. Plenty of times the
forewoman has had me discharged because I was ‘ stuck up. ’
' Prices here range from 20 cents to $2 a dozen. It depends
on the material. Children’s drawers pay 20 cents a dozen, but
there are no button-holes to work. Some shirts are $2, some
$41 and some $1.50, but most of them only pay 80 cents.
Everything is done by machine, including buttonholes and
gussets. The bosoms and bands are all ready to go in. Cor-
set covers pay 40 cents and chemises 20 cents each, but they
have to be trimmed and the holes worked by hand. This is a
mean shop so far as prices go, but they are all alike in that
particular. You have to find your own thread and you are
constantly being suspected of keeping back short ends of lace.”
I asked the forewoman for stitching and was given shirts at
80 cents a dozen to do. I had to pay 50 cents for the use of
the machine, a No. 8 Wheeler & Wilson, and 35 cents for a
spool of thread. I told the forewoman I had left my purse at
home, but she said it was ‘‘all right, you can have it taken
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
* 51
out of your wages. ’ ’ I asked her what the machine cost but
she didn’t know, and when I ventured the information that the
expiration of the patent had reduced the old price of $65 to
about $12 she told me she “reckoned I didn’t know what:
was talking about.” The room where we worked was about
eighteen feet wide and ten feet deep, with toilet closets built
out from the walls. The machines encircled the three walls
and in the middle of the floor were the boxes of work. One
girl was stitching wrist-bands, another had a button-hole ma-
chine and was getting 50 cents a hundred. A third was mak-
ing tucked drawers at 20 cents a dozen, and I had a shirt at
6fi cents, which I failed to finish in three hours, being unable
to manage the machine.
In Tuesday’s paper reference was made to the firm of W-
H— & Co., as paying 18 cents a pair for making trousers. It
was a typographical error and did unintentional injustice to
the firm. The lowest prices on their list is 45 cents, and that is
for making boys’ trousers.
WHILE AMONG CHICAGO’S WEAK SERFS “THE TIMES’”
LADY REPORTER FINDS MR. GOSS’ “GOOD JEW.”
IN A SMALL, DIRTY ROOM FILLED WITH A CROWD OF WO-
MEN LIFE SEEMS LIKE A HIDEOUS DREAM.
Two weeks ago Rev. Mr. Goss preached a sermon relative to
the morals and progress of the w’orking woman. Among other
things he referred to “ a good Jew” who, having the comfort
of the hundred odd girls in his cloak factory at heart, “ pro-
vided every day for 1 cent a substantial lunch.” I sent the
re\erend gentleman a note, inclosing a stamp for the address