I
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
of the “good Jew,” and in reply came the name of H. R-,
Monroe street. On went poverty’s respectable rags, and off I
posted for shop-work and a penny spread.
The elevator carried me to the top of the building, where
every week thousands of jackets, sacques, circulars, dolmans,
and cloaks are turned out to supply the country trade of the
northwest. Here in a crowded room, with low ceiling and
dingy walls, poorly ventilated and insufficiently lighted, sit
between eighty and 150 young girls, surrounded from Monday
morning until Saturday noon by the ceaseless clatter of the
sewing-machines in an atmosphere so thick that it can be cut
with a knife. The machines are run by steam, and notwith-
standing the great buckram fans overhead that revolve with a
crackling noise, the ceiling is so low and the air so hot as to
be positively stifling to the uninitiated. There is the smell of
dye from brown, blue and black cloaks coupled with the still '
more offensive odor from “ English plaids;” along the pressing-
table are the gas-stoves where irons are heated and where the
girls sponge and press collars and seams, each operation at-
tended by a little cloud of steam and stuffy, scorching smell
that blows about and around the whizzing fans; clouds of lint
from the textures in hand covers everything, and is con-
stantly being inhaled by the seweis. Then, too, there is the
smell of rancid machine oil; the overpowering exhalations from
so many perspiring and unkempt persons and an occasional
whiff from the six or seven toilet closets, all powerful factors of
one mighty smell that must be smelled to be appreciated. The
“good Jew” had all the windows open, but the place was so
foul I almost fainted.
I have a seat in the middle of the room, and a thirty-five
cent Norfolk to make. It is so dark that I can hardly see my
stitches as I bind the sleeve hole with black muslin. The fore-
woman can’t see either till she takes the work over to a window
to examine it, and returns with a gratifying “Guess that’11 do.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	53
We are so crowded along the line of tables that the girls are
told to take short threads, and I duck my head every time the
pale-faced, hollow-eyed girl at my left pulls her needle out, to
escape being hit. She has only been able to make three fifty-
cent long cloaks in five days and says:
“You won’t mind my taking long threads, will you, if I
don’t hit you ? ”
I tell her to pull away and offer to fell the bottom hem of
her cloak, to which she agrees. She has on a cheap jersey
waist, a calico skirt, and the little bit of underwear that shows
at her neck where she has opened her collar is as black almost
as her jersey. Her shoes are broken and one of the uppers is
mended with black thread. She lives with her folks and has
“ a lot of little brothers and sisters, but the ‘ Q * strikes have
put them all out” so she hasn’t bought anything for herself
this year except a hat at the Fair.
“ Do you go to church ?” I ask.
“ What’d I go to church for?”
“ For the music and the sermon.”
“ I want a seat, though, and I’d rather ride down to the
shop and back than pay ten cents to get in a pew.
A poor little bony and grimy, and wild-eyed as the “ march-
ioness, ’ ’ goes down on her knees and turns out the dust in the
cracks of the floor with the eye of her needle.	‘
“ I’m huntin’ for pins,” she says, '* to fix on the braid.”
“ Doesn’t Zimmerman provide you with pins ?”
“ Indeed he doesn’t; nor with nothin’ else but fannin’ and
what’s the good of fans in an oven ?”
The child turns up the pins, some of them bent, and puts
them first in her mouth to straighten them and then in the
bosom of her dress, humming to herself * ‘ Rock of Ages, Cleft
for Me. ’ ’ At the expiration of the hunt a new difficulty befalls
her. The needle’s eye is stuffed, as she says, and in the effort