54
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
to remove the filling off goes the head, opti^nd all. Nobody
has another to lend and I give her mine. ^
She says she is thirteen and the daughter of a Twelfth street
teamster. Her mother is living, and she and her brother
4 ‘ help the family along. ’ ’
“ Yes I went to school and learned numbers and gogerfy,
but I can’t sew very well. The forelady says that’s why I
don’t make more. I got $2.75 one week, but I don’t know
how much I’ll earn this week. I used to be in the Fair and
they gave me two dollars runnin’ checks. I didn’t like it
there because I never got home till eight at night and the boys
was guyin’ us all the time.
At noon-time the girls crowded into the wash-room and
those unable to reach the already wringing-wet towel that
hung near the sink dried on their dresses. I saw a tall young
German woman wash her arms and neck and shake off the
water as well as she could with the palms of her hands before
putting on her dress waist again. Another, a girl of fourteen,
who wore a plaid skirt and an old velvet jacket, dried her
hands on her underclothing. The lunch the “ good Jew ”
served consisted of a cup of black coffee that was neither
nutritious nor fragrant, and minus cream and sugar, for which
the girls paid two cents a cup. Then there were cuts of pie at
five cents each, which delicacy, architecturally speaking, had
two stories, substantially built, with a water-proof inner lining
of fruit mucilage.. The top crust had bubbled up in the bak-
ing till it was as warty as tripe, and the tenacity of the under
dough would have sufficed for hinging a cellar door. This is
certainly not the lunch Rev. Mr. G. described, but it is the
only one the girls in the Z. factory' know anything about.
However profitable the menu may have been to the firm it
was anguish to many of the hungry' toilers unable to procure it.
We girls who had no money to invest in appetizing (?) viands
sat by begging with our eyes and following with melting
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	55
mouths every morsel on its way down the throats of our neigh-
bors. One of us, a mite of a girl, wan-faced and hectic, who
had been watching the mastication of a well-fed machine hand,
waited till the leathery tangle of peach-paste had almost, dis-
appeared and then asked the consumer to “give her the crust.”
When th« well-fed party said “naw,” the child called her a
“dirty beggar,’’ and laid her little head on her arm for a nap.
I went out to buy a needle, and some day when “it rains and
the wind is never weary’ ’ I shall send in a bill for the seven
and one-half cents H. Z. owes me on a cotton-back Norfolk.
Only a half-hour was allowed for the noon rest, during which
the girls washed and combed, trimmed their finger-nails with
scissors, talked, or went to sleep.
All hands were on deck at 7:30 in the morning, in which
manner and the 5:30 hour of closing, the Saturday half-hour
was made good to the firm. Many of the girls told me they
made ten cloaks a week which averaged fifty cents apiece.
Work was good, the season covering ten months of the year.
A number of men at work on the long cloaks had chairs at the
side of the girls, and while well enough personally I did not
relish them, for they were" saturated with tobacco fumes and*
emitted a sour, sweaty, sickening ordor.
t-
CHILDREN THIRTEEN YEARS OLD WORKING FROM NOON
TILL NIGHT ON HEAVY COATS AND TROUSERS.
PAYING 13.50 FOR HEAVY TOIL THAT GRINDS THE MARROW
FROM THE BONES AND KILLS MORALITY.
Never so long as reason reigns shall I forget the day I
worked in H. G.’s tailor-shop, and never when I pray shall I
forget to add “God help the shop girls.”
t