56
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
Thursday morning I stepped from an Ogden avenue car and
walked down Market street in search of work. It was broiling
hot and I carried my brown veil on the breeze, and a small
pasteboard box containing a cracker and a lemon, a paper ol
needles, a thimble, and a pair of scissors. On the way I met
two unhappy looking girls of whom I made labor inquiry.
One had sewed carpet at five dollars a week for the C. C. Co.
but was out of employment. The other said she earned six
dollars a week in Wilson Brothers’ cravat department. Her
cousin was sick and the forewoman had ‘ ‘ let her off for the
day.”
The first clew I got to a place was a wooden sign with
“Sewing Girls Wanted ” that hung belo\^lje north window
of 155 Market street, where Messrs. H-, A-; & M-
manufacture clothing. I read the sign and entered the main
store—a nice, big, clean, cool place. A little girl sat at the
big typewriter making such a clatter with her letters that it
was useless to try to call her. In the office were two gentle-
men. One was the very prototype of Munkacsy’s Jesus Christ
and he I addressed for work.
“The gentleman that attends to the work is not here just
at present. Take a seat a moment.” I thanked him and
looked at the vacant chair. It wouldn’t do. It was too con-
spicuous. I knew the credit man in the building opposite and
didn’t care to be seen in my factory togs, so I went in a dark
corner, where I stood, first on one foot and then on ’tother, for
exactly forty minutes. Nobody came. Finally he with the
Nazarene face appeared and said : “111 go up and see if we
want any more help.” Again I said “Thank you,” and
watched him as he walked to the back of the store.
No, he didn’t have a halo, but a monstrous pair of pedal
extremities that curled up like an old-fashioned skate.
When he got to the back of the store he simply retraced
his steps and told me “We have all the girls we need.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
57
“ Why don't you take your sign in then? I have lost an
hour.”
A sneer made his face so hideous that I apologized to the
Hungarian painter.
“Supposing you take it in,” he said following me to the
doorstep.
“Why should I?”
“And for what purpose, please, should I take that sign in?”
“For Christain charity, but Christain charity is not in your
line.”
I then went over to Messrs. S. L. and Co. There I encoun-
tered the manager of the work-room and the most contemptu-
•	ous treatment it was possible for a man to show a hapless
woman. Suffice it to say H. A. & M. were avenged.
At A. L. S. & Co.’s, 178 Market street, I received the
most courteous consideration. The manager, took my name,
or rather a name and address, and said he would give it to any
of his patrons who needed help. Then he wrote me a letter
of which the following is a copy :
H. G-Rumsey street —Sir: This girl wants work. I don’t know
what she can do, but I think you can use her. Respectfully,
A. L. S.-per S-.
Rumsey street is two blocks west of Ashland avenue. It
begins at Division street and runs south a quarter of a mile or
so oyer heaps of yellow clay, rubbish and holes. The road is
almost impassable for teams, and only the residents of the
locality can take the upheavals and depressions of the side-
walk for a block without getting sea-sick. Filth of every
description litters the ground, and following the line where a
curbstone should be, are garbage-boxes\where the children
mold mud pies during the day where the men sit and smoke
their pipes after the day’s work is done, and where now and
then old termagants back-bite their neigbors and tear each
other’s hair. Some of the cottages are so low that the chim-
i *