58	The White Slave Girls of Chrbqgo.
neys barely reach above grade, and all swarm witK children,
pale, eager, dirty little creatures that root about in the yellow
clay and fresh dumpngs like the dogs they play with. Poor
children, it is not their mothers’ fault that they are wild and
unkept, for the languid parents give all their strength to the
shop-work in order to half feed and partly clothe them. I had
only walked a few blocks in this deep-rutted street in search of
H. G-before being convinced that I was not in the district
of protuberant optimists.
The first woman I made inquiry of w*as carrying a bucket of
sawdust from a neighboring ale-house. She didn’t know the
name, but when I mentioned coats she grew loquacious.
“Oh, yes, the ‘ slave hole ’ it’s called; that’s the sheeny
tailor’s! Don’t go to him, my dear; he’ll grind the marrow
from your bones. Go to service, girl, go to service. You can
have a cot in my room till you find a place. I was with him
one fortnight and worked my eyes most blind and he paid me
$1.75. No, I m from England, but I never had harder times in
the old country than now. There I paid five shillings for
lodgings and here they cost me four dollars.” She told me she
got the sawdust for sweeping out a corner dram-shop and used
it to boil her tea-kettle with.
The grandeur of 258 quite over-powered me. Instead of a
“hole” I found myself entering a large two-story red brick
house still in process of construction. I ascended the front
steps, and after the maneuver of the celebrated king of France
marched down again to the basement—to the shop—into the
presence of Mr. H. G-. I handed him my letter and while
he read it I took him in—optically. He was an unctious
little fellow with kinky hair, cunning brown eyes, hatchet
features, and a small mustache the color of roasted coffee. He
was attired in two shirts—a nether one of chocolate flannel
and a linen one a few shades lighter—a pair of check panta-
loons, carpet slippers, and a huge gold ring of masonic design.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
59
He read the letter with the cigar in his mouth, the smell of
which combined with the flavor of his feet and the exhalations
of his toilel was something preponderant.
He asked me what I had worked at, and after a few gasps I
gave him some of my history slightly distorted.
I was told to take off my hat and while doing so he stepped
back out in the entry and vacated a hook among the factory
girl’s wTraps, but as I did not care to take the chances of tempt-
ing the gutter snipes and going home bare-headed I declined his
attention and hung them in a corner on the floor. All ready,
sewing box in hand, I faced the gaping, silent throng, and was
pointed to a chair at a long table, about wrhich ten girls were
sewing with a speed and a silence that was terrible to contem-
plate. They wore cotton dresses of the poorest quality, some
of them open at the neck and nearly all rolled to the elbow.
The youngest were four little girls of it, one of whom was
operating, two basting, and the fourth finishing a blue cloth
cloak. One large Irish hand, possibly 25, sat at the upper end
of the table. Of the rest, 15 years would be a fair average
age. One poor girl who was very lame had a machine, and it
made my heart ache fo watch her pale face and follow her thin
little hands guide coat after coat under the needle. All the
girls were thin and haggered, some were very pretty, some few
had color in their cheeks, but it was the hectic flush, not the
healthy glow of youth and physical strength.
In all we were twenty girls, eight men and ttoo boys—poor
young fellows in their teens, with mealy complexions, wild
eyes, hollow cheeks and sunken chests. Neither weighed a
hundred pounds, but both pressed goods with heavy irons and
were cuffed and pushed about by the boss and his assistant.
The men worked in slippers and undershirt without straps or
suspenders to keep their trousers in place, and the girls wore
heavy peg shoes. I noticed some of the machine hands worked
the foot-plate in their Stocking feet.