6
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
lighted. On a long table that served as a sort of fortification
for the private office of the company were the samples —“ an-
ue crocheted goods ”—as they are listed in various shades
white. All were of different pattern and unvarying ugli-
ness. There were round tidies and oblong tidies, square mats
for a bureau and smaller ones of oval and circular design,
intended for a lamp or cushion. Behind the taMe, sacheting
between a writing stand and a desk, was a young ilkan of 30 or
so, of the blonde type, with a stationary scowl between his eye-
brows and an otherwise pleasing manner. That is, I thought
the manner pleasing till I began to get acquainted with it and
then my opinion changed. After a lapse of five minutes or
so the fair-haired gentleman turned to the young girl with a
deepening of the scowl and a most unalluring “ Well ? "
“ I brought the mats back.”
‘‘Oh, you have, eh?” opening a piece of newspaper and
unfolding a dozen hand-made mats the size of a tea-plate. The
work is carefully examined on both sides and as he proceeds
the scowl deepens, Without a word he tosses the lot on the
little table and reaches for the proffered blank the girl has
opened.
“ What’s your name ? ”
“Rhafferty.”
“ How do you spell it ? ”
“ R-h-a-f-f-e-r-t-y.”
‘‘Oh, yes; Martha Rhafferty,” after hunting through a long
list.
‘‘Doyou want more work?”
‘‘No, sir.”
“There’s plenty more if you want it.”
“ No; my mother don’t want me to do any more crocheting.”
“ Well, Mr. White isn’t in now. Can’t you come in again ?”
No answer. A look of discouragement comes over the
young face.
The White Slaw Girls of Chicago.
<1
Don’t you have to do some shopping about town?”
“No, sir.”
“Well, you can wait, can’t you ? Wait here. Take a chair.
[I had the only one.] Just go in the next room there and take
a chair.”
As he went to lead the way the crochet-teacher called his
attention, and the girl remaining I seized my chances for a bit
of interviewing.
Martha showed me her contract in which the firm had agreed
to refund $i of the three deposited when she had finished $15
worth of work. On the back of the contract were the credit
receipts of the company entered in lead pencil, dating from
January to July. She told me she lived in Gross Park, away
out on the West Side; that she helped her mother, and had
been trying to earn $15 since January. She received 60 cents
a dozen for the mats and it took her a week to crochet a dozen.
“Then I must pay 10 cents car fare each time, and that
leaves me only 40 cents. I had to pay $3 before I could get
any work. I always knew how to crochet, but they made me
pay $2 for lessons and $1 as a security. I began in January,
the first week, and now I am through. I have made $15, and
when they give me back the dollar I shall have $16.” Here is
a company paying a girl of 18 $15 for six months and one
week’s labor.	/ ,
When Mr. F. came from the work-room he was met by a
boy who had brought in some work and was in a hurry to
be off.
“Mrs. C. sent in these mats and she wants you to receipt for
them.”
The paper is opened and the work inspected. The scowl
deepens. There will be trouble and I prick up my ears.
“I don’t like this. This is bad. They are all stained.
Are you her—her—are you a relation?”
“Yes.’J
———