62
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
ers. She had been in the shop two ^ars and was getting
$2.25 a week.
Another girl whom I dare not indicate said: These beg-
garly Jews and Swedes are robbing honest girls of a living.
Most of them have homes and are willing to work for nothing.
I live with my mother and brother and can not make any more
than enough to pay our rent, $16 a month. I would go in a
family, but my mother needs me; she is sick. G. is
an awful hard man to work for. He steals my hire from me
and I steal his cotton and silk whenever I get a chance.”
During the noon hour the girls played in the front street and
afterward amused themselves in the back yard with the men.
At 12:45 o’clock the “boss” came into the shop, and five min-
utes later the place was noisy with flying shuttles, clicking
needles, and the whizzing wheels of the roaring machinery.
Fair young heads and pretty shoulders bent over heavy coats,
. and faces were so low that they almost touched the sewing in
their owners’ laps. The clatter of the machines was deafening,
and every now and then the shop resounded with the heavy
hot-irons wielded by the pressers in the back room. Nobody
had any time to hnnd the work, instead of which the cutter
threw it to the trimmer, who in turn threw it to the baster, and
so it moved from hand to machine, going the round of the
thirty odd workers with such rapidity that the air seemed filled
with flying coats. The room was low, and with every passage
of coat-tail mufiy clouds of lint seemed floating about in space.
Add to that poor light, bad ventilation, the exhalations of so
many people, the smell of dye from the cloth, and the noxious
odor of that ever-consuming cigar and you have material for
the make-up of Mr. G.’s coat shop. All afternoon we sewed ;
sewed incessantly without uttering a syllable or resting a mo-
ment. G. was building the third story of the house, and every
hour or so he left the shop in care of an assistant and went up
to look after the carpenters. During these intermittent spells
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
63
the girls took advantage of the substitute and hummed. They
didn’t sing, they hummed songs and hymns, marches and waltzes,
and when the sub was not looking they actually whispered.
But the absentee possessed marvelous powers of ubiquitous-
ness and very little time was wasted in this manner. There
are some people you would always know were in the room
without seeing them. This hard-headed, godless little Jew
was a character of that sort. We could feel his presence and a
corresponding heaviness of atmosphere. Whenever he caught
sight of a momentary idler he would glide up to her elbow and
mutter a single verb—work! She worked.
At five o’clock I wTas so tired that I didn’t know what to do
with myself. My hair was matted with moisture and dusted
with lint, and my head throbbed with pain.
I perspired at every pore, and the steels in my corsets
rusted all the front of my nice Hamburg underwaist. I threw
the big brown chinchilla overcoat I had finished on the floor
and for a period of three minutes fell into a state of voluptuous
inertia. With my sixth sense I saw the “boss’* pick up the
garment and the next moment another overcoat came flying
across the table and dropped all over me. I threaded my
needle preparatory to finishing my ninth garment, began a
light calisthenic movement of my right arm to scatter the pain
and limber up my elbow. I went through perhaps seven
motions, with my chair tilted back by way of stretching my
lower extremities, when I was^interrupted by the benevolent
young tailor and his incombustible cigar.
Grabbing the frame of my chair he jammed it down on all
fours and told me to “ get to work.”
“ How much am I going to get for this work ?” I inquired,
after recovering'from my astonishment and the sudden shock
of gravitation.
Do you want to know ? ” he asked with a contemptibly sig-
nificant laugh. ^