64
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“If you please.”
“Well, just finish that coat and at 6 o’clock I’ll tell you.”
“I won’t finish any more. There’s your coat. Pay me.”
‘4 Pay you ! For what ? * '
“ For seven hours’ work. For finishing eight coats. ”
Without further notice of me than an insolent sneer he
picked up the coat, walked back to his cutting-board and began
to draft out collars. I went back to the cutting-board, too,
and stood at his side till commanded to “get out of his way.”
I stepped back enough to give him elbow room, but did not
leave the table.
“ How long do you expect to annoy me by your presence? ”
“I expect to remain where I am till you pay me for my
seven hour’s work.”
“Your day isn’t up yet. We don’t quit till 6 o’clock and
its only ten minutes after 5.”
I told him I didn’t want to work for him another minute and
demanded my pay.
“Well, do you want to know what I’d pay you?”
“Yes.”
“One dollar and fifty cents a week, and you ain’t worth
seventy-five cents. ”
“You told me when I started that I could get $3 at least if
I could sew.
“ And you can’t. All day you have been sitting up in your
chair with your shoulders straight and your chair back as if
you had a rocking chair. There’s what I value you at,” and
he threw a 25-cent piece at me. At first I hesitated about
touching the money, and, as I looked at him to see whether
he was serious or not my eyes rested on the heavy, gold ring
he wore.
“Oh, you’re a B’nai B’rith man I see. Will you favor me
with your card ? ’ ’
“What for?”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
65
“ I want to send this money to the society for the orphans
you represent, with my compliments.”
“Get out of this shop or I’ll put you out.”
Begging him not to go to that trouble I got. On my way out
I took my box containing my sewing weapons from the table,
and before I had gone two yards the humane proprietor of the
establishment challanged me.
I made a pert remark about scorning to take any of his
belongings that were not disinfected and proceeded toward the
door, behind which I had stowed my hat and jacket. Debat-
ing whether I had better take in the vest cellar on the corner
of Rumsey and Division streets or go back to the office and
write my copy I stood at a machine table and tossed up my
day’s earnings. The first was heads, the second heads, and
before I could reckon the third the angry boss informed me in
an orotund quality of voice that “ that’s good American money
and if you don’t want it just hand it back to me.” Not deign-
ing to notice the map I pinned on my hat, and this worthy
member of the slave-driving fraternity used the opportunity
every low-lived wretch has to insult a friendless, helpless working-
girl. It may gratify H. G. to know thaf his cowardice had
the desired effect. But I told him he would hear from me
•
again and I mean to keep ray word. I know personally sev-
eral members of the B’nai B’rith, and I am sure that they at
least do not knQw the character of this man, if they know he
is a member.
Watever opinions I may have entertained about the dignity
of labor, respectable poverty and the absurdity of fine feathers,
my experience as a factory hand has unfitted me for future
service, since in no place that I workea did I see any incentive
to decency, honesty or respectability, or any promise of success
that did not carry with it the downfall of blindly climbing
hope.