'
66	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
GETTING A JOB WITH THE ENCOURAGING PROSPECT OP
WORKING SIX WEEKS FOR NOTHING.
*
SOME INDIGNITIES FROM FLOOR-WALKERS THAT WERE
VERY HARD TO BEAR.
Wednesday morning I began my career as dry-goods clerk.
It took all my wits to get an opening. At F’s, M’s, W’s and
S’s no help was needed, and none would be taken without
experience. By all managers I was treated politely. L.
didn’t want any more help and told me so with vehemence.
The big blonde who manages the B. H. was “very sorry he
could not offer me anything before the fall trade opened.” I
told him I was quick at figures and knew I could sell goods if
I only had a chance. No, it was too late in the season and I
had better come in again. I asked bow much he thought I
would be worth. “Oh, $3.50 or $4 tm^ou are experienced.”
“ Couldn’t you give me $5.
“Hardly.”
“ Not if I prove to you that I can make and keep custom?”
“You can’t expect $5 any place in town. You see, you are
green; you don’t know anything about the business.”
“The goods are all marked, am’t they? Well, I know
enough about mathematics to master the intricacies of your
check and stub in ten minutes, and I must have work right
off with enough salary to live on.”
He put his foot on a chair and with a show of genuine inter-
est wanted to know what it cost me to liv#. As I gave him
the figures borrowed from a girl in J. S.’s employ he took them
down on a piece of paper:
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	67
* 4
Lodgings ...............$1	50
*	Gar-fare..............................60
Lunches..............................30 9
That makes $2.40, and if you pay me $4 I will have $1.60 a
week to live on. Perhaps you can tell me where a girl can
get food and clothes for that amount?”
‘ No, I can’t. But why don’t you go to the factory and
sew?”	'	•
‘ Make shirts at 80 cents a dozen and cloth jackets at 25
cents each? One trial is enough. Now I am going to see
what I can make clerking,” and thanking him for his attention
I withdrew. In the C. of P. the manager told me I would
have to begin on small pay, $3 or so, till the season opened,
and that I might come in the next morning and he would
try me.
At the F. Mr. M.’s lieutenant said the girls were off on
their vacation, and he didn’t think it would be right to put me
in while they were away.
“ That doesn’t matter. Their pay goes right on, and I will
be willing to leave when the old hands come back.” As I
expected, the fish bit, and he told me with something of a sar-
donic glance that the vacations were “free,” and that I had
better try the box or cloak factory till September.
At P.’s I was told to see Mr. E. P., who hired the help, and
I sought him up six floors and down in the basement. He
was inclined to repulse me because business was slow, but I
importuned and finally we came to terms. I wTas to begin at
once and to work six weeks for nothing. Think of it! Work
from 8 a. m. to 6 p. m from August 1 to September 12 and get
nothing.
“But you get your experience,” said Mr. P.
“Any woman who cannot get it in one week won’t get it in
six.”
He told me not to be so sure of that, but I persisted that the