68	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
business required only a limited knowledge of reading words,
figures, and human nature and that if I didn’t sell goods I
didn’t want any pay. For the next five minutes I played the
role of Gabriel and blew my own trumpet.
“ Well, it’s just this way : You are an inexperienced hand
and I’ll have to put you through all the departments before
you will be useful in the stock. That’s the way I train all my
new hands, and when they leave here they can always get good
places. You can try it if you’ve a mind to, and at the end of
that time I’ll give you a good reference or a place in the
house.”
“At how much.”	•
“Well that depends. If you sell $50 or $60 worth of goods
in a day I’ll be willing to pay you $4, and if you sell $150
worth you can have $8. But you see I don’t really need any
one just now, for there is mighty little money to be made this
season.”
“Do all your girls have to go through the six weeks of pro-
bation ?
“All the new ones. Every one. That’s our plan, for it
gives us a chance to see what kind of material the applicant is
made of.”
“Well, I’ll try it. If I find I can’t livfc on nothing longer
than two weeks will you give me a letter?”
“ No, I can’t say that. I can’t recommend you unless you
serve the full six weeks, because it wouldn’t do you any good.
I couldn’t say anything about you except that you worked for
me.
“And if I am found faithful and efficient wouldn’t you say
so?”
“No, I couldn’t. It wouldn’t do, don’t you see, because I
have a reputation for turning out the best kind of help.”
“Well?”
In response to fatherly inquiry I told him I was staying with
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	69 •
1
friends, on whom I had only the claims of friendship, but that
I had absolutely no resources beyond self-help. He spoke en-
couraging words about the rewards of industry and the face
value of push, vim, and snap, and with so much fabric on
which to rekr hope—that trembling expectation of things far
removed—I engaged.
The first direction was to go down in the basement, and put
my hat in the cloak-room. I saw plenty of men and girls in
the dim gaslight selling goods at the various counters, and little
boys running around with bundles and checks, but no evidence
of any cloak-room.	»	-
I asked a little tow-hfead and he pointed “over there.” I
pushed open the heavy black door that swung in and fear and
horror seized me. The smell was sickening and the heat over-
powering. The floor was wet and slippery and the place so
dark that I could not see anything for a moment or so. The
first door in the inclosure was marked “ladies’ toilet,” and I
pushed ^it open to find even a more densely polluted atmos-
phere. The room was very large, divided by a partition, on
one side of which was a small iron sink in which a large yellow
bowl had been placed. There was a scrap of brown soap on
. the wet shelf, and near by hung a small looking-glass. A long
crash towel drooped like a transferred sea-weed from a roller
on the opposite side of the room. The next was a “gents’
room,” beyond which I found the cloak-room, a place so dark
that I could not find a cubby-hole in which to stow my hat for
some time. Like the annex, the floor was wet, the atmosphere
foul, and the heat so intense that I thought my head would
burst. The arrangement was of the usual order, each box be-
ing numbered and the inclusive numbers marked on the end of
each tier. Notwithstanding the severity of my black chip hat
I was not a little disinclined to lay it in the dusty, ashy hollow.
But in it went and out I went, with my throbbing temples be-
tween my hands and my body streaming at every pore. On