70
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
my way out I discovered tbe blazing furnace along the west
wall which gave the cloak and toilet rooms their tropical
climate. On this floor there must have been at least fifty per-
sons, separated from the enfeebling heat and vitiated atmos-
phere by a mere wooden partition. I asked a man behind a
pile of cottonades how he stood it, and he said:
“My God, a body can stand anything when he can’t get
bread for his children any other way. It’s awful hard here
these hot days, but we don’t mind it in cool weather.'’
Although I felt as though I had been sick and was convales-
cing the hot-air bath did me good, for when I stepped from the
elevator into the bright sunlight and free air of the main floor
I was as happy and light-hearted as a nymph in fairyland.
Mr. P. met me and escorted me to the running-stock,
placed on narrow counters running the whole length of the
aisle. There were buttons at five cents a card, one trough full
of penny handkerchiefs, and another at three cents each. A
little farther along was a medley of ruchings dirt theap, a sea
of fifteen cent aprons with tucks and shirrings, and a fine line
of cuffs and collars a nickel apiece. Midway were the toilet
specials—Florida waters, bay rum, foreign and domestic
colognes from five cents to forty cents a bottle, and a mountain
of medicated paper rising from a bed of swans-down face pow-
der, pink and white, only seven cents a box. Mr. P. told me
to “take hold of the whole lot and sell anything I could.” I
took hold of the toilet waters and medicated paper, and the
floor-walker brought me a book and showed me how to make
out a check. I had only committed to memory the cologne
stock—violet, lavender, anemonee, and queen—when a strange
man from the other aisle called : “ Hist there, come and wait
on this lady.” He led me to the lawn counter, where a lady
wanted to see some “buff swiss.” All the clerks were measur-
ing off nainsook, bombazine, or cross-bar lawn and could not
heed my application for “buff swiss.” I read all the box la-
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
7*
bels. Not one bore the Alpine legend. Presently my male
confrere advised me and I pulled out a box, hit my nose with
the off corner, and raised a dust when I dropped the heavy
pasteboard on the counter. The box was full of white swiss,
and the lady said it wouldn’t do. I smiled and asked if she
wanted to match.
“No; for a picnic hat.”
I told her she wanted tarlatan, and that I had a lovely
shade. I showed it to her.
“Won’t do/”
“ But it gathers beautifully and is very becoming to your
complexion,” putting the stuff alongside her amber cheek.
“Just get some black wings or a bunch of purple pansies to go
with it and you will have a regular fete hat.”
She succumbed and took half a yard—ten cents’ worth. I
borrowed my neighbor’s scissors, and as I cut off the amount
I could not but think that my first customer got a good deal
out of me and Mr. P. for her money. When I made out the
check and gave it to the man on my right to “ please run,” I
went back to my perfumes, papers and powders. For the next
few hours I did a rushing business with the one-cent handker-
chiefs, which I boomed to the roof. I sold them to small boys
and old men, to visiting gentlemen and ladies, and to scores of
young mothers carrying babes in their arms. When I was
thinking it was about time for some one to come and pour the
oil of gladness on my head I learned that the handkerchiefs
were a specialty and limited to two. I had been selling them
in lots of from six to ten, and fearing the consequences I sneaked
down to the aprons and endeavored to make a customer of
every man, woman and child that came my way. A lady
came along for two 3-cent handkerchiefs and while waiting for
the change I showed her some German cologne. I noticed
when I was removing the stopper to give her a smell that the
vial was marked 40 cents, but as the large display card read