72	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“35 cents each’' I concluded the fragrant stuff had been
reduced and told her so. While I was .stating the fact the
floor-walker came along and told me I was mistaken. 1 * There’s
the price plainly marked 40 cents, madame, and its a bargain.”
“No, I won’t pay but thirty-five cents, that’s what this girl
told me,” and the gentleman said take it along. When I had
run the check and the lady had gone, he came back and blew
me up, as a bit of a girl in the tidies said he would. He asked
me what the matter was; if I hadn’t “better soak my head and
learn to read,” and wanted to know where I had been “hang-
ing out.” I suppose the proper thing would have been to cry.
but I only yawned and said I wished there were chairs for the
clerks to sit down when they were tired. Then I was told to
take and mark these queen colognes forty cents.
“ Does the firm provide lead pencils?” I asked.
“Yes, and gold w'atches.”
“ Where shall I go to get a pencil; I have none?”
“All you get here will go in your eye,” and the elegant
overseer left me. A girl who heard the talk said I could go
down to the stationery counter and buy one for two cents.
At noon Mr. P— came along and told me he had been
watching me and that I would make a first-class clerk in time.
“You have the ambition and that’s what we want. Did
you bring your lunch ?”
“No sir.”
“Well you can just go up to the lunch room and get your
dinner. I’ll pay for it. Only twenty minutes noon today.”
I thanked him and rode up to the sixth floor. The place
was an immensity of space, partially occupied with boxed
goods. In one small corner a small boy had charge of a large
table about which were upholstery and way down a hundred
feet or more, sat a young woman sewing brussels- carpet. Her
face was unforgetably sad and her form slight and stooped.
“ I don’t mind being up here alone,” she said. “ I prefer
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
73
it to the crowd down on the other floors. I get very tired and
would rather work five hours longer at this than stand on my
feet from eight to six. I get five dollars a week. I have been
here going on two jrears. It’s a nice house to work for
because they never fine you, and Mr. P-always takes
the girls’ part when the boys are insulting.”
In the center of the great roomy floor was an old piano, and
as soon as the girls ate their lunch there was music and song
and a whirl or so about the dusty floor. You pert young
ladies and insofcnt old women who think it necessary to abuse
and brow-beat these brave little bread-winners would be
ashamed of yourselves could you hear the melody their fingers
extract from the disabled instrument, and remember tlie money
wasted on your musical education. They not only played
with grace and filing, but they sung and danced and talked
about books and magazines borrowed from the libraries—a
proof conclusive that “oft in a wrooden house a golden room
we find.”
In and about this playroom of shop girls I saw many sweet
things that were more than human. The big girls took a
motherly interest in the little clerks and told them how to
“ treat the customers ” and how to “get along with the walk-
ers.” One gentle creature with “odd” shoes on gave a little
freckle-faced girl of twelve years, whose hair she was combing
this lecture :
“ Now, you mustn’t get sassy.”
“I’ll sass them if they sass me,” retorted the child with a
storm of tears.
“No, no. Now, don’t you cry,” and she put her arms
about the little one and loved her as tenderly as if she were a
daughter.
“ It isn’t any matter what a lady says to you. You musn’t
pay any attention to it. But if you say anything back she’ll
report you and “ E’ 11 ” discharge you. I tell you how I do.