74
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
Whei\ a customer treats me bad I go away from her and fix
the stock. Just try it next time. Mercy, how fast your bang
is growing ; I’ll have to trim it again.”
I saw a girl pay 3 cents for a cup of tea, pour out a saucerful
for herself and give the rest to her shabby chum who wasn’t
feeling well. Ever so many gave a bite of pie or tart to a
friend who had no desert, and a slim girl named Mary, in the
fringe-stock, spent her entire noon with a friend sewing the
gathers in a skirt that had been caught in the elevator latch.
The girl with the injured gown stood up and lid her benefac-
tor mouthfuls of bread and meat and raisins between the
stitches. < When the rent was mended the girls wiped their
face and hands in Weir lunch-papers, because there was not
time to go down to the basement just then, although there is
no restriction to their leaving stock any time during the day.
I had a dinner which an income of $5 or less per week would
doubtless have made a real banquet. It was spread on a
leather-covered table and seasoned with pepper and Worcester
sauce, vinegar, etc. The spoon was tin and the bowl almost as
shallow as the handle, and the parting between the two prongs
of my fork was less than an inch long. I had a black, wood-
handled knife with either edge of which I found it impossible to
divorce my roast veal. A lithe little colored girl, as straight as a
reed, served me with cucumbers, cold-slaw, mashed potatoes,
green peas,melons and coffee, but the best to my liking was a dish
of nice bread and butter. The colored woman who kept the
kitchen told me she cnarged 20 cents for dinner, but not more
than 10 clerks bought it. They couldn’t afford to pay that
much and she couldn’t afford to sell it for less. Nearly all the
hands brought their own lunches, and she served them with
tea, coffee, milk or lemonade for 3 cents.
“No, I don’t pay anything for the kitchen. Mr. P. lets me
have it rent free, just to help his clerks to be comfortable. He’s
a right good boss. ”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
75
A girl whom I interviewed on the subject said she liked the
dinner well enough, but would rather take a walk at noon.
“ I often bring my lunch and eat it and then go out on State
street.”
“Where?”
“Well, I’ll tell you, but you musn’t think I’m crazy, be-
cause I ain’t. Sometimes when I want anything I go to other
stores and make the clerks wait on me. If I have any money
and see what I like I take it, but if I havn’t I say it won’t do.
Then I go to another shop and look for something else, and I
keep on shopping for nothing till the time is up.”
“ What for? To get rested ? We havn’t any seats in stock.
There are benches up in the lunch-room, but it’s no change to
get up there. Anyhow, there’s no place downtown here where
girls can go unless it’s Sip to the public library’, and then all
the seats are full. I’d go to the park front if it wasn’t so far,
but with that walk and only forty-five minutes. there’s not
much time to rest. Me and another girl used to go into the
restaurants that were crowded and sit at the table. Often the
waiters were so busy they’d never come near us till it was time
to go. If they did hand us a bill of fare we’d pretend to be
looking for something and he’d tell us to select what we wanted
and go to wait on some other customer. Then we’d leave.
“ Now we have a good scheme, but you musn’t give it away.
When we eat our lunch we go over to Field’s or Gossage’sand
wash in the customers’ room. It’s awfully nice there, for they
have white soap and clean towels and mirrors all along the
walls. They don’t know but we’re customers, ’cause we price
some goods first. We have towels here three times a cjay, but
there’s so many girls to dry on them that if you don’t get down
just as they’re put up they are as wet as water.
“How much do I get? Oh, I’ll not tell.”
“ One dollar a day ?”
“Not much.”