76
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“How long have you been clerking?”
“Three years.”
From 12:30 till 3 p. m. I was so busy I didn’t have time to
think. Every woman wanted to be waited on at once, and as
soon as I put one bill of goods in the railroad basket the floor-
walker clapped his hands and hustled me off to another. The
result was I got flurried and couldn’t tell the woman who had
bought buttons and given me 25 cents from the one to whom
the handkerchiefs at 17 cents even belonged. I couldn’t work
the baskets very well and for a time I had to hold the steel rim
between my teeth while I put the check and change in the
leather box in order to keep the basket from flying up above
my head. It was like drawing a bucket of water out of a
country well to get the goods up to the gallery, and almost as
hard to pull the package and change down again. Little boys
had charge of this part of the business, but they were neither
numerous nor expeditious and a great amount of time inter-
vened between a sale and the receipt of the money and parcel,
in consequence of which the customers grew impatient and
scolded the clerks and the clerks looked indifferent and said
nothing. I pasted the raw skin on my hands that the ropes
had worn to the quick and apologized, but neither availed
much. I found the women customers insolent, overbearing,
inconsiderate and very curt. But I bore with them, flattered
them, humored them, tossed whole boxes of goods on the
counter for their inspection, and literally forced them to buy.
Of the dozens and dozens of women I approached with my
“something I can show you” only two declined my services
with thanks. The average woman told me she had been waited
on, the fashionable dame said “no,” and the ultras didn’t an-
swer at all.
At three o’clock I was so tired thai 1 was tempted to go
home. My ruche had wilted to a mere thread, my hands were
black from handling the rope and the stock, there wa« not a
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
77
clean spot on my handkerchief in which to wipe my perspiring
•	face, and I had no place to sit and nothing to lean against.
All the girls wore aprons with a large pocket in which they
carried their check-book. I had no apron and no pocket large
enough for the thick book. For a time I kept the clumsy
volume on one of my seven counters, but the walker told me
he had “caught on” and commanded me under penalty not
to leave it lying there. The only place I could carry it was
up under the front of my basque and up it was squeezed.
Now that basque fits me within an inch of respiration, and
whenever I squeezed the book up I had to gasp for breath. If
I hadn’t taken it out as often as I did there Is no telling how' I
should have survived. As it was I was almost ready to shut
myself up like a jack-knife from the pain in my chest.
And my ieet! How they swelled. I expected every min-
ute to see the buttons of my boots fly off and the uppers go to
pieces. I stooped to look at them and a girl came and sympa-
thized with me.
“It’s too bad you’re not in stock,” she said, “you could
slip your feet out of your shoes. That’s the way the girls do
behind the counter, but of course you can’t do that out here on
the floor. But you’ll get used to it. My feat swelled awful
the first two weeks, but now I don’t notice them at all. Lots
of the girls wear slippers behind the counter.” I took partic-
ular pains to investigate, and counted nine girls w'ith one foot
slipped out of their shoes. One girl stood in her stocking feet
and ever so many had on one slipper or a pair of old shoes.
Mr. P-treated me very nicely. Besides giving me a free
lunch he gave me a white poppy which I wore in my corsage
all afternoon and he told me I was getting on finely. He
showed me some of the goods he was particularly anxious to
sell off and said I would get a “p. m.” on each sale. Inas-
much as I had no other prospect prior to September- twelfth, I
set to work and sold a seventy-five cent imitation Turkish