78
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
chair-scarf and was given a ten-cent p. m. That paid my car-
fare. I learned that plenty of the girls had earned various
sums in this way. And received one dollar p. m. on a lace
counterpane, another twenty-five cents on a French plastron,
and the girl in the silk stock was literally coining commis-
sions. At five o’clock I waylaid Mr. E. and begged for a
transfer.
“Why?”
“Well, I’m tired. I would like to try hosiery or parasols
or flannels,” I told him, for the real truth was I fancied some-
thing less prominent. I wanted to get off in a corner or down
cellar away from a possible acquaintance. He promised to
look about and returned shortly to “fetch me to the glove
department. It’s in charge of a very nice young fellow and
perhaps you can marry him.” Admitting that that was the
height of my ambition, I followed and was presented to Mr. L.,
a very nice-looking gentleman and much nicer than he looked.
He bowed with the grace of a Burr and remarked, “Ypu
havn’t had any experience.”
“ Oh yes, I have been in the employ of Mr. P. all day.”
“Well,” with a little ha, ha “I’ll try you at the twenty-
five cent glove. Right in there.” Right in there was not
much wider than the extremes of a tom cat’s whiskers, but I
squeezed in, dislocating my bustle and Psyche knot and found
myself at the very entrance of the big front door. There was
nothing to do but put my pride in my pocket and saw wood,
and I set about selling out before closing up. It was a good
day for silk mitts and they sold like hot cakes. I did a rush-
ing business and had the head of the department railroading
my checks.
I had sold about six pairs when he came over and told me I
was a bully clerk.
“I’ll have to keep you here. Tell Mr. P. to hire some
other girl.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	79
“ Thank you, but I don’t think I hanker to stay.”
“Why?”
“ The pay doesn’t suit for the work expected of me.”
“ How much are you getting ?”
“ Nothing for six weeks.”
“ Oh, no you are not.”
“I beg your pardon.”
“ Nothing ! No pay for six weeks ?”
“Those are the terms on which Mr. P. engaged me.”
“ How much do you want to cotile in this stock and sell my
goods?”
“Couldn.tbe hired under ten dollars a week and want a
raise wThen the season opens.”
“ You shall have it. Come around in the morning—eight
o’clock—and I’ll go through the stock with you. You can go
home now.
I told Mr. P. of my success and he congratulated me and
said:
“Just the sort of a^girl we want. Anyone with pluck can
get on.”
“ For six weeks with nothing ?”
As I made my weary way to the elevator the girls were
sweeping out and preparing to leave. In the toilet-room I
found twenty of them or more washing at the one small sink
and drying their faces and hands in pocket handkerchiefs and
petticoats. There were three towels on the rollers but they
dripped.
A few had powder rags and made up because there was no
more convenient way of getting the dirt off.
The only sign or rule in the entire establishment was the one
posted in the lunch-room. It read : “Please take as little
time as necessasy for lunch today.”