8	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
“ Well, you must tell her to wash her hands. These goods
are all sweat. I’ll have to charge her for spoiling the mate-
rial if it occurs again. Did she tell you to ask for more work ? ’ ’
The poor boy is gone. Martha sits in the back room the
picture of suspense and the entry being made I am approached.
I look like a beggar and that is what I am taken for, as the
pretty blonde secretary only scowls. He stands and looks
down at me and I sit and look up at him waiting for the lines
in the handsome brow to deepen, the edge of the soft brown
mustache to curl, and the laconic, withering “ well” to break
the daze. It comes.
“Have you any work? ” I ask.
‘ * Plenty. Do you want work ? ’ ’
“This kind of work?” handing over one of the 6o-cent
mats.
“ Yes; what do you pay ? ”
“ Different prices. Pay by the dozen, from 60 cents to $10.”
“ Let me have a dozen of the $10 kind, please, giving my
cat-colored eyes a mater voloroso sort of a roll. As he caught
the seraphic expression some facial machinery gave a lurch
that threw one side of his countenance bias for a second.
Reaching to the desk he pulled out the following circular and
handed it to me:
Office of W-L— M-Co. (Incorporated,) S-— Street, Chi-
cago, III.—Madame: In reply to your letter regarding the work we
. send out to ladies to do at their homes we beg to say that we would make
a large line of crochet goods of our antique crochet cotton (a sample of
which you will find enclosed), also linen, silk, etc. We make mats,
tidies, lambrequins, bedspreads, shams, collars, hoods, lace edging, etc.,
in large quantities.
“ No, sir.”
“Yes.”
“What can you do?”
“Oh, I can crochet.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	9
We have been established here for the last five years, and have extra
facilities for selling goods in large lots, so we are enabled to keep our
workers in steady work all the time. Should you desire to work for us
we should be pleased to send you work on the following terms:
When you send order for work you are required to remit to us $3; $2
of this is to pay us for the patterns and instructions which we shall send
you with each lot of new work. (We shall also send you sufficient extra
material so you can make a sample of each pattern sent, which you
are allowed to keep for yourself); $ 1 of the I3 you send is a deposit on
the material we send, and this we shall return to you at any time when
you return the work and wish to stop. You will be kept in steady work,
paid for each lot when made and returned to us in good order. Our work
is all made by the dozen, and prices range from 50 cents per dozen to $10
per dozen, according to amount of work. An easy pattern with sample
and full instructions will be sent you at first, and the quality of work,
and advance in prices as you adapt yourself to doing it. The work will
be sent you by mail, postage paid by us one way. Three month’s time is
allowed you to do any one dozen of articles we send. This enables ladies
who have only a few hours daily to spare to do our work as well as those
ladies who take it intending to do it steadily.
We are asked many times how much a lady can earn. This depends
entirely upon your abifity to crochet and the time you have at your com-
mand daily; ladies earning from $2 to $5 weekly. We could not guaran-
tee to anyone any stated amount that they could earn, but our work is
easy, and after you accustom yourself to it you can do it yery rapidly.
If you desire to work for us fill out the blank below and return it to us
with the $3, and we will place your name on our books and send work at
once with full instructions. Send money by postoffice order, draft, pay-
able to our order, or registered letter at our risk.
Very truly,	-
Keep the above for reference.
W-L— M-Co., S- Street, Chicago, III.—Gentlemen:
Inclosed find $3 that I send you to secure patterns, instructions, and ma-
terial for crochet work; $2 is to pay you for samples and instructions, and
$1 is for deposit on material which I shall demand returned to me at any
time when I return to you the material in my hands.
Signature..................
Town. . . .................
County...................
Street and No. . . ............