82
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
She taught me to select the “bodies'” and “downs,” and
after pointing out the difference in the “tails” and “wings”
told me to “pick.” I did so till I had feathers in my pockets
and ears, in my hair and nostrils, and all over me. They
stuck in my woolen waist, got between my teeth and into my
my mouth and eyes till I could see nothing but flukes and
stems, and could tell the “sides,” “tails,” and “breast” by
the taste. It was all I could do to keep from suffocating.
Annie said I would get used to the dirt in a little while and
thought I ought to be able to pick five pounds a day in a few
weeks.
Annie had a good head for figures ancNi^me some pretty
sound ideas regarding the condition of the working girls.
“ I get 7 cents a pound for sorting the quills and 10 cents for
the down feathers. When I work hard I can pick ten pounds
of the quills and three of the down. That makes $i a day for
five days. We close Saturday at noon and then I make 60
cents or so. About $5.50 a week. It’s hard to make any
more this hot weather. In the winter any good hand can make
$7 a week, but very few earn more. I have been at the busi-
ness for about three years. When I commenced there were
months that I didn’t make more than enough to pay for my
car-fare and lunches. The girls who size or measure the
feathers get 1 % cents a pound, but the machine moves slowly
and they only earn about $4 a week. Girls who split and
bunch feathers earn between $5 and $6, and those who sort the
long tail and side feathers get 1 cent a pound. The best h^id
in the shop picks 80 pounds a day. Awful quick worker, but
that’s not $5 a week.”
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
83
A BASEMENT THAT ON A HOT DAY IS SO STIFLING IT RE-
MINDS ONE OF THE “BLACK HOLE OF CALCUTTA.”
WORKING FROM 7:45 UNTIL 6:30 AND RECEIVING IN EX-
CHANGE FOR THE TERRIBLE DRUDGERY AND
HARD LABOR A MISERLY $2 OR I3
A WEEK.
For dismal surroundings, economy of comforts, and heartless
treatment, to the B. store belongs the palm.
I did not work in that establishment, although I tried very
hard to do so. I was in the store at 8 o’clock on Friday morn-
ing as arranged with Mr. H. who had partially promised to hire
me. “One of the girls in the hosiery department” he had
said “is sick, and if she doesn’t come back Friday morning I
will try you.” -
I could not find the gentleman, although I hunted the main
floor and the floors above and below. My plan of fluctuation
was to take the elevator up one story and walk down, then ride
up two and walk down the third flight. In that way I took in
the entire store and a great part of the employes. I began at
the bottom and spent a full hour in the basement, where I saw
so much and suffered so much that the upper floors had no sur-
prises for me. In the first place the atmosphere was almost
unendurable.
Hot! It must have been 100 degrees above !
Out in the open air not a breeze was stirring and the heat
was sizzling. Down where I was I could not see a single
opening to admit the air, fiery as it was, except the open door