I
84	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
at the extreme southeast corner of the floor, leading up a short
pair of steps to the sidewalk. About this doorway so many
goods were piled and draped and hung that the passage of air
was obstructed. There must have been forty, and there may
have bfeen eighty, clerks, cash boys, and girls on this floor and
five times that number of customers surged in and out under
the glaring rays of gas-jets and electric burners. Babies
squirmed and cried under the suffocating heat; children
screamed and fretted; men and women fanned and wiped their
faces, but the little cash girls and the langiK^ clerks’ endured
their prison uncomplaining. Add to the heat from gas-jets,
electric lights, and machinery, the exhalations from so many
people, the moldy smell from damaged goods, the dampness of
the freshly mopped floor, the fumes from a stray disinfectant,
and the mildew that lurked in dark corners, and you have some
idea of the quarters in which customers are invited to look for
bargains, and where helpless, honest, freeborn American men
and women, boys and girls are forced to work for clothes and
bread.
What about the soul ? It’s mockery to mention it to these
slaves in such a dungeon.
On a rude plank door painted black is the word “ Ladies.”
The irony of it! “Serfs” would be less impertinent and
“bond-women” or “drudges” better than either.
The door yields to my touch and I enter the toilet and cloak
room. The atmosphere is so intense and the effluvia so offen-
sive that I am almost stifled. A window about eighteen inches
square has been cut in the side of the staircase leading from the
street, and here I stand, my face turned up to the clouds of
dust that float in from the feet and skirts of the passing cus-
tomers. By and by I get accustomed to the foulness and turn
round to explore the place. The floor is black and wet from
recent mopping; the janitor has swept all the previous day’s
rubbish in from the basement and it forms a big pile behind
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	85
the door. There is only one gas-jet in the room and I do not
see the wet sweepings until I have stepped in them. On either
side of the inclosure are the cloak-boxes, communication to
which is afforded by a window a foot square. A young and
very pretty colored woman is in one section and in the oppo-
site window is a little boy possibly 13 years old. All the female
help pass their hats, wraps and lunches through these windows,
and they are put in a cubby-hole the number of which corre-
sponds to the number of the clerk. The smell of mold forcibly
assails the senses, and mingled with the foul odor of the ad-
joining closets the effect on the lunches must be left to the
imagination. On the east side of the partition is the toilet
inclosure, built like the rest under the pavement. But for the
perforated coal-hole covers over head the place would be pitch
dark. It is damp, dirty and smelly, the stone sidewalk form-
ing a ceiling, and gray flagstones the floor. The closets, four
or five in number, have not even the luxury of doors, and in a
space at one end is a dirty little iron sink into which runs a
stream of water. As only two girls can approach the narrow
trough for water at a time it is not hard for the reader to under-
stand how great a luxury this single stream of clear, cool water
is to the slave-girls. At one time I counted twenty-eight girls
in this filthy little hole, which is unfit for cattle and in which
no man would water a faithful dog.
When I had accustomed myself to the deadly smell that per-
vaded the place it was 9:30 o’clock and the girls were begin-
ning to come in to wash their hands and clean up, after arrang-
ing their stock. About the little mirror were seven girls, some
combing their hair, some dressing it, and all trying to get a
peep at their wan faces. The closets were crowded, and while
three young girls were washing at the sink five moved about
with bits of soap in their hands, their arms and faces covered
with lather. The soap may have been furnished by the house,
but of the absence of towels I am positive. Most of the girls
N