86	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
\
had their own comb, soap and towel, and where do you sup-
pose they carried them?
In the bosom of their dresses.
I cautioned a girl who had opened the front of her waist
against putting the wet towel so near her breast, but she only
laughed and said “nothin’ll hurt me.”
*' But it is wet and may cause a lung trouble.”
“ Indeed it won’t. I used to put it there all last winter, and
it didn’t hurt me. When it was awful cpld I wore it home
and I never even had a cold. ’ * As she spoke she folded the
little towel, and laying it against her unde^vaist buttoned her
dress and went to the hole in the north cloak^box for a glass of
lemonade. I told her I was very thirsty and asked for a drink.
“Oh, you have to pay. It’s 3 cents a glass.”
The colored girl and her little white slave had a bucket full
of the beverage—a very excellent article, by the way—which
they retailed at the price stated. The ebony vender refused to
sell to me till I convinced her that I expected to commence in
the hosiery stock as soon as Mr. H. came down. The girl
with the wet damask in her bosom drained her glass to the
last drop, ate the slices of lemon rind and pulp, and with the
help of her finger transferred every grain of undissolved sugar
to her mouth. She lapped the mouth of the glass with her
tongue and when the boy took it from the ledge it was as dry
as could be. I could not get her to confide her salary, but she
said: “ It ain’t nothing like $5. For two years I only got
$3, but now I have more. ’ ’
I found a girl named Bessie in the closet-room lying against
the wall, the very picture of death. Her face had no more
color in it than a china cup, her lips were blue, dark lines
increased the brilliancy of her blue eyes, and her hands were
cold and clammy. She told me she was “ awful sick,” but her
mother made her come because she didn’t want her to lose
her place.
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
87
“The floor-walker ’ud leave me go home if I ast him, but I
•	.
havn't any car-fare and I don’t want to walk. I lost my tea
money and all cornin’ down in the cars this morning. I was
asleep.” I offered to pay her car-fare.
“No; if I ride in the air I’ll be better before I get to the
bridge.”
I bought her a glass of lemonade and gave her “tea pennies”
for a week, after which we became quite confidential.
“ I get $2 a week here, and give it to my mother to buy
meat. Sometimes I ride home, but them’s the days that I
don’t buy tea, cause it costs too much for both. The tea is 3
cents a cup and the car-fare, if you ride both ways, is 10 cents,
and that’s 13 cents.”
Seventy-eight cents subtracted from $2 would leave a
precious small sum for meat.
“ The most I ever spend is 50 cents a week. That’s how
much mother lets me keep out. Oh, there kind of good to us.
Last night when it rained Mr. H. gave nickles to the cash
girls that didn’t have car-fare nor gossamers. But I guess
he’ll keep it out of their wages pay-day. Some of the clerks
don’t be good to us. They pull us everywhere and push us
*	when we don’t -go fast, and we never dast ride in the elevator.
The clerks can, but the cash-girls has to walk. They don’t
fine us if we come late, though, and they do the clerks, some
15 cents and some 25 cents, and if any of us is sick we lose the
whole day out of our wages. The one I like most is Miss
Gannon; she is awful good; she puts three lumps in the tea,
and trusts the girls when they haven’t any tea pennies.”
A larger girl, possibly nineteen, showed me her odd shoes.
“ I’m wearing this one with the tips to break it in. I have
to stand all day and my feet are so sore I can hardly bear a
new shoe. I got these new ones in June. Oh, they’ll last till
Christmas I guess. My salary is five dollars a week, but I
don’t save anything. My mother takes it all for the groceries.