88
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
I don’t know what I’m going to do. Clerking is very hard
but I can’t sew or I’d go and work in a necktie factory where
girls get ten dollars. Do house-work ? No, I wouldn’t like to
live out. I can’t cook anyway. I could mind the children,
but nurse girls only get twelve dollars a month. Yes, I know
they have their board. No, not their washing. If you don’t
help the kitchen girls whenever they tell you you have to do
your own washing, and I’d rather than have them bossing
me.
A mite of a cash girl who wore broken slippers, said she had
better shoes at home, but it was so hard running all day that
she couldn’t wear them.
One of a cluster of girls from the grocery floor who were
earning $3 and $3.50 a week said : " People talk bad about
the B-store but it’s as good as any of them. We needn’t
be at the store till eight in the morning and they never fine us
if we’re late. Lots of times when I have been sick the floor-
walker has told me to go out and walk rouifli and if I didn’t
feel better when I came back he let me go hom£. If it rains
Mr. N. lends us car-fare. He never said to pay him back but
I always did. We get “p. ms.’ too, and last week I made
eighty cents extra. At noon we can take forty minutes and
go where we like. We girls always go to Cooper & Siegel’s
and eat in the basement. At the Fair they give you a dinner
for twenty-five cents, and whenever we have a lot of ‘ p. ms. *
we eat there. ’ ’
“ Why don’t you eat up stairs in the lunch room ?” I asked.
“Well, ’cause the benches havn’t any backs, and it’s nicer
to go out for a change.”
Like “the wards of Jamdyce,” caged up in this place of
abomination that the heavenly compassion of the proprietors
have provided for their hapless “ladies,” I met hope, youth,
9qualor, want, disease, despair, woe, cunning, innocence, rags,
beauty, bravery and industry variously personified in all
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
89
stages of v miserable girlhood and womanhood. Much of the
talk I heard was coarse, indicative of ignorance and low
breeding, but I saw no eyidence of depravity or viciousness.
One hears a great deal about the purchase of the shop-girl, but
the insinuations are as false as they are base. The skeptic has
only to look at the garb of these poor pale-faced, stoop-should-
ered girls to admit their virtue. Vice is better dressed. I
spent an hour or moj-e on the main floor watching the swarm-
ing customers joggle one another and haggle with the young
girls wljp waited on them. So many people in the densely-
stocked, over-crowded, ill-ventilated room polluted the atmos-
phere, making the strong weak and the weak sick. Every
available foot of space was utilized, some of the counters con-
sisting of pine boxes on the side of which emaciated children
measured fringes, trimmings, ribbons, and cheap stuffs. One
of these “ troughs ’ filled with Hamburg edging was placed
between the two elevators, and the little girls in charge were
knocked and pushed about by the hurrying crowd in a most
unseemly manner. I did not see any girl sitting down nor any
provision for a momentary rest. There was no mistaking the
poverty of the homes from which these hapless young creatures
came, for their garments were old and shabby and in many
cases unclean, unkept, and unsuitable. Worse than their
clothes was the unkept condition of the hair and person of
some young girls. As in the adjoining establishment, I saw
girls waiting on customers in their stocking feet. I saw the
floor-walker push and drag the young girls about and the
managers bully and drive both. One of these dignitaries, a
tall, argus-eyed blonde, with stooped shoulders and a drooping
head, was the right man in the right place. Everybody dis-
persed at his coming. His scowl was something terrorizing,
and had I been a subordinate and given the choice of the
lash and one of his glances of reproof, I should have taken the
former. There was another head, a tall, compactly-built
\