90
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
brunette, almost as formidable, who had a pair of eyes that
seemed to burn holes in everything and everybody contem-
plated.
The same sweltering crowd harassed the clerks on the sec-.
ond, third and fourth floors, and on the fifth the sight of so
many little drudges selling groceries or handling goods made
one feel ashamed of the civilization that fostered such a con-
dition of woman. The younger girls in many instances wore
big check aprons to screen rather than save the worthless
little dresses beneath. It was harrowing to see these children,
boys of ten and twelve, and fragile girls of eleven, twelve,
thirteen, and fourteen, carrying boxes of soap, starch, and
candles, packages of buck-wheat, salt, and'\ominy, and cans
filled with oils, sirups, vinegars, and the lilce^ The men in
charge had no hesitancy in commanding these transfers, calling
Maggie and Mary as often as John or Dick to make the
removal. I saw one little boy of slight build with a sweet but
very sad face, dragging a bag of coffee that would have been a
strain on the muscles of a strong man, and a little Swede girl
who said she was thirteen in March, had a box of canned
vegetables in her arms the weight of which made her black in
the face.
There is a ruin of youth and beauty which is more appalling
than age, and into such ruin has the youthful grace, vigorous
beauty and the charm of gladness and trust of these immature
lives fallen. There was no inclination to frolic, no merry ban-
tering, and no semblance of childish glee among the little serfs.
A bridge of sighs spans the alley on the fifth floor, bringing
the two stores of Messrs. C. W. & E. P. into communication.
Across this covered passage in the P. store proper, is a small
room in the rear of the floor which is used as a cafe by the
female help of the B. store. The furniture consists of two
narrow tables and three long benches extending the length of
the apartment. The benches had no rung or rest for the back,
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	91
and here the young women and check-girls sit at noon over
their lunch. On the wall is an expansive sheet of ecru paper
bearing this inscription :
“Female clerks and check-girls: You are requested not to
eat on the stairs or anywhere else. You will keep to the
right coming up, and to the left going down. You will not
talk on the way nor take hold of each other’s hands, but walk
by yourselves. Anyone breaking this rule will be discharged.
Apropos of signs I forgot to say that in the basement where
the cloak-room is designated this notice appeared in bold relief:
The girl who took the silk umbrella
Saturday is known. If it is not re-
turned at once she will have to take
the consequences.
Another less conspicuously placed sign read:
All female employes will be ready
for work at 7:45 a. m., under penalty.
Miss Gannon who has charge of the kitchen, is the good an-
gel of the place. She is a plump, nice-looking person of splen-
did presence, with mild eyes, a firm face, sweet voice, and a
heart brimful of motherly tenderness. She makes tea and lem-
onade, which, with fresh milk is retailed at 3 cents a glass.
The tea has cream in it and the three lumps of sugar that go
with each cup are a gastronomical treat to the little ones who
drink the Japan first and save the sugar ^ubes for desert.
When I found Mr. H. he called his assistant, the lowering
brunette with the fiery eyes, who told me he had no opening—
told it, too, with a degree of positiveness that left no room for.