92	The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
t
argument. With this summary dismissal after waiting nearly
two hours, I rode up to the top floor to see if I could not find
an opening in the grocery store. Mr. S. was hung up in a side
gallery midway between the ceiling and floor with a dozen or
more perspiring clerks. It did not take me long to discover
that I was being pursued, for I had not been engaged two min-
utes with the head of the mailing department, a most arbitrary,
red-haired, narrow-chested creature of 30 or so, before Messrs.
H. and N. sent him word to appear at once. Before leaving
Mr. S. said he would hire me if I had references that would
satisfy him as to my “honesty and respectability,” but when
he returned from the one-minute interview with the managers
a great change had come over him.
“ No, I can’t hire you until I know something about you.
You are a stranger to me. I will want you to fill the country
orders and there will be plenty of chances for a dishonest girl
to steal gloves, handkerchiefs, jewelry, and other articles that
can be secreted in the pocket. I must have a letter from some
firm or corporation.”
I offered to furnish a letter from a ministe\but it was de-
clined as “ no good. ’ ’ On the promise that I should be engaged
as soon as I produced the indorsement of a firm or corporation
I withdrew and returned in an hour with the following:
“Chicago, Aug. 3, 1888.—To whom it may concern: This is
to certify that the bearer is a ^oung lady who has worked in our costume
department during the production of “ The Crystal Slipper,” and is thor-
oughly trustworthy and efficient and we can recommend her to any simi-
lar position.	Thomas W. Prior,
Business Manager and Treasurer Chicago Opera House. ’*
After persuing it, Mr. S. called a little girl, and pinning my
letter to a note of his own, sent it to Mr. H. • The dignitary
appeared, and in a very ambiguous style declined my services.
I learned afterward that A. E., the cloak manufacturer, had
.	I
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
93
41 warded” the B. store, and while I was off getting my letter
that benevolent man had furnished a description.
It is a little singular that while the B. store refused to give
me a position as clerk, a most urgent invitation was sent to
The Times requesting that a reporter be sent to examine the
books and methods of the concern. By way of inducement a
voluminous account -accompanied the invitation relative to sal-
aries, rules, etc.
“ NELL NELSON ” SPENDS A DAY AMONG THE SERFS AND
BONDWOMEN IN THE SHOPS OF “LITTLE HELL.”
FOR FOUR HOURS OF UNCEASING TOIL IN A DIRTY,
CROWDED TAILOR’S ROOM SHE IS PAID SIX CENTS.
It was 7 a. m. by all the whistles in “ Little Hell” when I
reached that section of the city in search of an opening in a
slop-shop. The streets were crowded with shop hands hurry-
ing to their day’s work—men and boys with pipes in their
mouths carrying dinner-pails or lunch-baskets; little girls in
groups of two and three, in beggarly rags; young women and
old women, some of them white-haired and stooped with age,
wearing shawls about their head and shoulders and the mean-
est apologies for shoes. Many girls were bare-headed, and
went through the street with old skirts and dilapidated waists
that had neither collar or sleeves.
At the corner of *E. and W. streets is an immense tailor shop
into which the girls fairly swarmed, some going into the main
and some into the rear building. Both buildings have three
stories, each containing a shop under a different “boss.” I
followed the crowd through both buildings, beginning in the
basement and going up and up and up the narrow,dirty, cov-
%
\