96
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
No. 314 I met Mrs. S. The family lives up-stairs in a cottage
and on the ground floor is the shop, which is entered from the
back yard via the kitchen.
In the latter apartment was a splendid, big range, brightly
polished. A couple of Swedes were pressing at a side table.
In the front room were the machine girls,N*jce, healthy crea-
tures, selected no doubt for their enduring quality.. Nothing
but the boards in the floor protected their place from the damp
soil, and while everything was scrupulously neat the facilities
for rheumatism were largely superior to those for health, com-
fort and light. Wages varied. Mr. S. was away, but his sal-
ary sheet was safe in his wife’s keeping. “ Some girls earn so
much and some not so much, and that’s how it is,” she said.
One of her oldest hands told me she worked “ like a slave for
$4.50 and never get more than $5. He won’t let you.”
Mr. H-—, of Cleveland avenue, has not mastered the
English language, but knows all about the values of American
labor, since he gets it as low as $1 a week.
His establishment is in a rear building adjoining his resi-
dence. Ascending a flight of wooden stairs I found myself on
a landing, from which one door led to the H. kitchen and
another down four steps to the shop. The spwers numbered
possibly thirty, in all stages of poverty. They worked as
though salvation depended on industry, and all the time I re-
mained not a word was spoken. The girls made signs when a
spool of thread or a skein of twist was wanted. From every
window a different house was visible, some of them being
nothing more than mere sheds, in all of which were young
children and mothers.
H. didn’t want any more help. I sought him through his
wife, but found him so sullen that out of pity for her I took an
early dismissal. It made me very unhappy to see the poor girls
slaving over their work, ruining their eyes, health and appear-
ance by the faulty positions in which they sat. It needed no
The White Slave Girls oj Chicago.
97
quizzing to learn that the salaries received were very poor, for
there was not a decent pair of shoes nor a tidy dress in the
whole assembly.
In the rear of Cleveland avenue is a two-story wood shed,
on the upper floor of which Herr K- and half a hundred
employes work on “shop” clothing and make money. That
is, C. makes it. At the foot of the stores leading from the
back yard is a little kennel, from which a ferocious watch-dog
bounded and nearly scared me. into a fit. The “boss” was
“ out on the front sidewalk ” the foreman told me. He offered
to call him, but I protested, and, seating myself on the edge of
a press-stand, surveyed the room. Girls all around sewing
with slavish speed and convict silence. Everything silent as
the tomb but the trembling machines. Girls in calico rags
and woolen rags and one with a neat little three-cent cotton
suit and a pink ribbon about her neck. A child of a dozen
years or so goes round the room with drinking-water. The
four men wear slippers and clay pipes and press without ceas-
ing the cheap John and cottony pants and vests. All the
windows are wide open and at the very level of their sills I
count the roofs of seven foul-smelling closets.
K. is middle-aged, with a complexion like pork tenderloin
and a limited knowledge of English. He manages to make
me understand that I have no show, and I make my farewell
appearance and open at S.’s on Mohawk street. That gentle-
man uses his wife for a mouth-piece and his kitchen for a fac-
tory. Only three girls at work. Rest have laid off till next
week. They have pantaldons for the millions about the room,
stacked in piles of five feet high, for finishing which girls get
6 cents, or 30 cents a day.
At Eugenie street I find another shop in which the girls are
packed like cattle in a freight car.** The “boss” doesn’t want
to try me and I’m glad of it.
I take a walk down Larrabee street. * At O.’s on S. street