98
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.
nearS. I am “taken.” It is just 12 o’clock. I have been
tramping through “Little Hell” and vicinity since 7 o’clock
and feel completely “done.” I take a rest till 12:30 and
explore the shop. The building is a story and a half, extend-
ing back to the alley, with a frontage of forty feet. In the
basement is a livery stable. Mr. 0 keeps three or more steeds
here and rents out a stall or two to a neighbor. Off the stable
is a closet for the hands. On the floor above the stables are
quarters for twenty odd men and women in a dirty, dark,
gloomy ptece, with bare rafters and smb^e-stained, unfinished
walls. The machine-tables are set along the window-line,
leaving the center of the floor for a blazing furnace that sup-
plies the power, and mountains of pants ready to be finished.
Near the roaring fire is a sink supplied with nothing but a
faucet. When it was time to go home my face and hands
were coated with dust and dye, but there was neither, soap nor
towel with which to make myself decent and I had to go un-
washed. The upper floor had a slanting roof in which windows
had been cut to admit the necessary, although by no means
sufficient light. The heat was simply enfeebling. Before I
had half started my No. 338 I was inclined to throw down the
gauntlet and go home, but the patient, uncomplaining, suffer-
ing girls made me ashamed of myself, and I resolved to hold
on. The perspiration rolled down their arms and faces and
stained the miserable waists they wore at the neck and
shoulders.
“Yes, it’s awful hot up here,” ray neighbor remarked, “but
this is nothing to the cold. In the winter we work with our
cloaks on always till noon, and lots of times I have kept my
overshoes on all day.”
The 1 ‘ boss ’ made me equivocate about my knowledge of
the pantaloon trade.	4
“I can’t take any but experienced help.”
“How much?” *
The White Slave Girls of Chicago.	99
“Where have you worked? ”
“Oh, at G’s, and J. S’s, and E’s and-”
“Have you done tailoring?”
“Plenty.”
“Well, then, if you’re experienced you ought to be worth
considerable. Here, take that for a sample,” and he handed
me a pair of No. 33 striped pantaloons with a roll of red and
white waistbands and sent me up stairs, where, between the
stable; smell and the enervating atmosphere, I came near
collapsing.
I hadn’t the faintest idea of how to go about the waist of
the garment, but I watched the “boss” down-stairs and got
Matson to let me sit by him. The dear old man was bald and
untidy, but he basted in the body lining for me, chalked the
buttons on the waistband and fly, and did my ripping—which
was not trifling. It was 12:30 when I began, and I worked
every moment of the time with a diligence that was positively
criminal till the work was done. It was 4:45 when i handed
my first pair of factory trousers to the “boss,” who looked
them over from bottoms to buttons, and said: “You’ll do the
others better.”
“Yes sir. How much?”
“Five cents.”
How is that for American labor? Five cents for four hour’s
work!
I was told by the women who take them home that four pair
are as many as they can finish in a day. That is 20 cents, or
$1.20 a week. But oh, the smell of that cellar stable, and the
heat and the wan faces of the girls that make hideous the very
name of O.
1	*